PEDAGOGY OF THE OPPRESSED 


PAULO FREIRE 


In Paulo Freire’s hands literacy is a weapon for social change. Education once 
again becomes the means by which men, can perceive, interpret, criticize and 
finally transform the world about them. 

Freire’s attack on the ‘culture silence’ inhabited by the vast numbers of illiterate 
pep-ants in Brazil’s poorest areas has contributed in an extraordinary Way .to the 
development of a sense of purpose and identity among the oppressed and 
demoralized majority. His work is the result of a process of reflection in the midst 
of a. struggle to create a new social order. His is the authentic voice of the Third 
World, but his methodology and philosophy are also important in the’ 
industrialized countries where a new culture of silence threatens to dominate an 
over consuming and over managed population, where education too often means 
merely socialization. In contrast, Freire’s approach concentrates upon the ability to 
deal creatively with reality. 

Of all those currently writing and thinking about education Paulo Freire may 
well be finally the most influential. Speaking from and for the Third World, and 
implicitly for all underprivileged people, he proposes a view of education as 
something positive and also hazardous, a means of liberating people and enabling 
them to participate in the historical process. His Cultural Action for Freedom is 
also available from Penguin Education and is published simultaneously. 

Freire contributes a compassion for the wretched of the earth within an 
intellectual and practical confidence and personal humility. He was a professor of 
the philosophy of Education and is someone who can imagine alternatives and 
initiate action. 

Most of all Paulo Freire has a vision of man. With our systems of education and 
their lack of shared purposes and a common vision, that may be the most 
fundamental of all the problems that he poses for us. 


Foreword 

In the course of a few years, the thought and work of the Brazilian educator 
Paulo Freire have spread from the North East of Brazil to an entire continent, and 
have made a profound impact not only in the field of education but also in the 
overall struggle for national development. At the precise moment when the 


disinherited masses in Latin America are awakening, from their traditional lethargy 
and are anxious to participate, as subjects, in the development of their countries, 
Paulo Freire has perfected a method for teaching illiterates that has contributed, in 
an extraordinary way, to that process. In fact, those who, in learning to read and 
write, come to a new awareness of selfhood and begin to look critically at the 
social situation in which they find themselves, often take the initiative in acting to 
transform the society that has denied them this opportunity of participation. 
Education is once again a subversive force. 

In the United States, we are gradually becoming aware of the work of Paulo 
Freire, but thus far we have thought of it primarily in terms of its contribution to 
the education of illiter-ate adults in the Third World, If, however, we take a closer 
look, we may discover that his methodology as well as his educational philosophy 
are as important for us as for the dis-possessed in Latin America. Their struggle to 
become free subjects and to participate in the transformation of their society is 
similar, in many ways, to the struggle not only of blacks and Mexican- Americans, 
-but also of middle-class young people. And the sharpness and intensity of that 
struggle in the developing world may well provide us with new insight, new 
models, and a new hope as we face our own situation. For this reason I consider 
the publication of Pedagogy of the Oppressed in an’ English edition to be 
something of an event. 

Paulo Freire ’s thought represents the response of a creative mind and sensitive 
conscience to the extraordinary misery and suffering of the oppressed around him. 
Bom in 1921 in Recife, the centre of one of the most extreme situations of poverty 
and underdevelopment in the Third World, he was .soon forced to experience that 
reality directly. As the economic crisis in 1 929 in the United States began to affect 
Brazil, the precarious stab-ility of Freire ’s middle-class family gave way and he 
found himself sharing the plight of the ‘wretched of the earth’. This had a profound 
influence on his life as he came to know the gnawing pangs of hunger and fell 
behind in school because of the listlessness it produced; it also led him to make a 
vow, at the age of eleven, to dedicate his life to the stmggle against hunger, so that 
other children would not have to know the agony he was then experiencing. 

His early sharing of the life of the poor also led him to the discovery of what he 
describes as the ‘culture of silence’ of the dispossessed. He came to realize that 
their ignorance and lethargy were the direct product of the whole situation of 
economic, social, and political domination - and of the paternalism - of which they 
were victims. Rather than being encouraged and equipped to know and respond to 
the concrete realities of their world, they were kept ‘submerged’ in a situation in 
which such critical awareness and response were practically impossible. And it 


became clear to him that the whole educational system was one of the major 
instruments for the maintenance of this culture of silence. 

Confronted by this problem in a very existential way, Freire turned his attention 
to the field of education and began to work on it. Over the years he has engaged in 
a process of study and reflection that has produced something quite new and 
creative in educational philosophy. From a situation of direct engage-ment in the 
struggle to liberate men and women for the creation of a new world, he has reached 
out to the thought and experi-ence of those in many different situations and of 
diverse philo-sophical positions: in his words, to ‘Sartre and Mounier, Eric Fromm 
and Louis Althusser, Ortega Y. Gasset and Mao, Martin Luther King and Che 
Guevara, Unamuno and Marcuse’. He has made use of the insights of these men to 
develop a pers-pective on education which is authentically his own and which 
seeks to respond to the concrete realities of Latin America 

His thought on the philosophy of education was first expressed in 1959 in his 
doctoral dissertation at the University of Recife, and later in his work as Professor 
of the History and Philosophy of Education in the same university, as well as in his 
early experiments with the teaching of illiterates in that same city. The 
methodology he developed was widely used by Catholics and others in literacy 
campaigns throughout the North East of Brazil, and was considered such a threat to 
the old order that Freire was jailed immediately after the military coup in 1964. 
Released seventy days later and encouraged to leave the country, Freire went to 
Chile, where he spent five years working with UNESCO and the Chilean Institute 
for. Agrarian Reform in programmes of adult education. He then acted as 
consultant at Harvard University’s School of Educa-tion, and worked in close 
association with a number of groups engaged in new educational experiments in 
rural and urban areas. He is presently serving as Special Consultant to the Office of 
Education of the World Council of Churches in Geneva. 

Freire has written many articles in Portuguese and Spanish, and his first book, 
Educaao como Pratica da Liberdade, was published in Brazil in -1967. His latest 
and “most complete work, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, is the first of his writings to 
be published in the United States. 

In this brief introduction, there is no point in attempting to sum up, in a few 
paragraphs, what the author develops in a number of pages. That would be an 
offence to the richness, depth, and complexity of his thought. But perhaps a word 
of witness has its place here - a personal witness as to why I find a dialogue with 
the thought of Paulo Freire an exciting ad-venture. Fed up as I am with the 
abstractness and sterility of so much intellectual work in academic circles today, I 
am ex-cited by a process of reflection which is set in a thoroughly historical 
context, which is carried on in the midst of a struggle to create a new social order 


and thus represents a new unity of theory and praxis. And I am encouraged when a 
man of the stature of Paulo Freire incarnates a rediscovery of the human-izing 
vocation of the intellectual, and demonstrates the power of thought to negate 
accepted limits and open the way to a new future. 

Freire is able to do this because he operates on .one basic assumption: that 
man’s oncological vocation (as he calls it) is to be a subject who acts upon and 
transforms his world, and in so doing moves towards ever new possibilities of 
fuller and richer life individually and collectively. This ‘world’ to which; he relates 
is not a static and closed order, a given reality which man must accept and to which 
he must adjust; rather, it is a problem to be worked on and solved. It is the material 
used by man to create history, a task which he performs as he overcomes that 
which is dehumanizing at any particular time and place and dares to create the 
qualitatively new. For Freire, the resources for that task at the present time are 
provided by the advanced technology of our Western world, but the social vision 
which impels us to negate the present order and demon-strate that history has not 
ended comes primarily from the suffering and struggle of the people of the Third 
World. 

Coupled with this is Freire ’s conviction (now supported by a wide background 
of experience) that every human being, no matter how ‘ignorant’ or submerged in 
the ‘culture of silence’ he may be, is capable of looking critically at his world in a 
dialogical encounter with others. Provided with the proper tools for such an 
encounter, he can gradually perceive his personal and social reality as well as the 
contradictions in it, become conscious of his own perception of that reality, and 
deal critically with it. In this process, the old, paternalistic teacher - student 
relationship is overcome. A peasant can facilitate this process for his neighbour 
more effectively than a ‘teacher’ brought in from outside. ‘Men educate each other 
through the mediation of the world. ’ 

As this happens, the word takes on new power. It is no longer an abstraction or 
magic but a means by which man discovers himself and his potential as he gives 
names to things around him. As Freire puts it, each man wins back his right to say 
his own word, to name the world. 

When an illiterate peasant participates in this sort of educa-tional experience, he 
comes to a new awareness of self, has a new sense of dignity, and is stirred by a 
new hope. Time and again, peasants have expressed these discoveries in striking 
ways after a few hours of class: ‘I now realize I am a man, an educated man.’ ‘We 
were blind, now our eyes have been opened. ’ Before this, words meant nothing to 
me; now they speak to me and I can make them speak.’ ‘Now we will no longer be 
a dead weight on the cooperative farm.’ When this happens in the process of 
learning to read, men discover that they are creators of culture, and that all their 



work can be creative. ‘I work, and working I transform the world.’ And as those 
who have been completely marginalized are so radically transformed, they are no 
longer willing to be mere objects, responding to changes occurring around them; 
they are more likely to decide to take upon themselves the struggle to change the 
structures of society which until now have served to oppress them. For this reason, 
a distinguished Brazilian student of national development recently affirmed that 
this type of educa-tional work among the people represents a new factor in social 
change and development, ‘a new instrument of conduct for the Third World, by 
which it can overcome traditional structures and enter the modem world. 

At first sight Paulo Freire’s method of teaching illiterates in Latin America 
seems to belong to a different world from that in which we find ourselves. 
Certainly it would be absurd to claim that it should be copied here. But there are 
certain parallels in the two situations which should not be overlooked. Our 
advanced technological society is rapidly making objects of most of us and subtly 
programming us into conformity to the logic of its system. To the degree that this 
happens, we are also be-coming submerged in a new ‘culture of silence’. 

The paradox is that the same technology which does this to us also creates a new 
sensitivity to what is happening. Especially among young people, the new media 
together with the erosion of old concepts of authority open the way to acute 
awareness of this new bondage. The young perceive that their right to say their 
own word has been stolen from them, and that few things are more important than 
the stmggle to win it back. And they also realize that the educational system today 
- from kindergarten to university - is their enemy. 

There is no such thing as a neutral educational process. 

Education either functions as an instmment which is used to facilitate the 
integration of the younger generation into the logic of the present system and bring 
about conformity to it, or it becomes ‘the practice of freedom’, the means by which 
men and women deal critically and creatively with reality and dis-cover how to 
participate in the transformation of their world. The development of an educational 
methodology that facilitates this process will inevitably lead to tension and conflict 
within our society. But it could also contribute to the formation of a new man and 
mark the beginning of a new era in Western history. For those who are committed 
to that task and are searching for concepts and tools for experimentation, Paulo 
Freire’s thought may make a significant contribution in the years ahead. 

Richard Shaull 


Preface 


These introductory pages to Pedagogy of the Oppressed own the result of my 
observations during the last six years of political exile, observations which have 
enriched those previously afforded by my educational activities in Brazil. 

I have encountered, both in training courses which analyse the role of 
‘conscientization’ and in actual experimentation with a genuinely liberating 
education, the ‘fear of freedom’ discussed in the first chapter of this book. Not 
infrequently, training course participants call attention to ‘the danger of 
“conscientization” in a way which reveals their own fear of freedom. Critical 
consciousness, they say, is anarchic; others add that critical consciousness may 
lead to disorder. But some confess: Why deny it? I was afraid of freedom. I am no 
longer afraid! 

In one of these discussions, the group was debating whether the conscientization 
of men to a specific case of injustice might not lead them to ‘destructive 
fanaticism’ or to a ‘sensation of total collapse of their world’. In the midst of the 
argument a man who previously had been a factory worker for many years spoke 
out: ‘Perhaps I am the only one here of working-class origin. I can’t say that I’ve 
understood everything you’ve said just now, but I can say one thing - when I began 
this course I was naive, and when I found out how naive I was, I started to get 
critical. But this discovery hasn’t made me a fanatic, and I don’t feel any collapse 
either,’ 

Doubt regarding the possible effects of conscientization implies a premise which 
the doubter does not always make explicit: It is better for the victims of injustice 
not to recognize themselves as such. In fact, conscientization does not lead men to 
‘destructive fanaticism’. On the contrary, by making it possible for men to enter 
the historical process as responsible subjects, conscientization enrols them in the 
search for self-affirmation, thus avoiding fanaticism. 

The awakening of critical consciousness leads the way- to the expression of 
social discontents precisely because these discontents are real components of an 
oppressive situation. 

Fear of freedom, of which its possessor is not necessarily aware, makes him see 
ghosts. Such an individual is actually taking refuge in an attempt to achieve 
security, which he prefers to the risks of liberty. As Hegel testifies in The 
Phenomenology of Mind: 

It is solely by risking life that freedom is obtained;... the individual who has not 
staked his life may, no doubt, be recognized as a Person; but he has not attained 
the truth of this recognition as an independent self-consciousness. 

Men rarely admit their fear of freedom openly, however, tend-ing rather to 
camouflage it - sometimes unconsciously - by presenting themselves as defenders 


of freedom. They give their doubts and misgivings an air of profound sobriety, as 
befitting custodians of freedom. But they confuse freedom with the maintenance of 
the status quo; so that if conscientization threatens to place that status quo in 
question, it thereby seems to constitute a threat to freedom itself. 

Thought and study alone did not produce Pedagogy of the Oppressed; it is 
rooted in concrete situations and describes the reactions of workers (peasant or 
urban) and of the members of the middle-class whom I have observed directly or 
indirectly during the course of my educative work. Continued observation will give 
me an opportunity to modify or to corroborate in later studies the points put 
forward in this introductory work. 

This volume will probably arouse negative reactions in a number of readers. 
Some will regard my position vis-a-vis the problem of human liberation as purely 
idealistic, or may even consider discussion of ontological vocation, love, dialogue, 
hope, humility, and sympathy as so much reactionary ‘blah’. Others will not (or 
will not wish to) accept my denunciation of a state of oppression which gratifies 
the oppressors. Accordingly, this admittedly tentative work is for radicals. I am 
certain that Christians and Marxists, though they may disagree with me in part or 
in whole, will continue reading to the end. But the reader who dogmatically 
assumes closed ‘irrational’ positions will reject the dialogue I hope this book will 
open. 

Sectarianism, fed by fanaticism, is always castrating. Radicalization, nourished 
by a critical spirit, is always creative. Sec-tarianism makes myths and thereby 
alienates; radicalization is critical and thereby liberates. Radicalization involves 
in-creased commitment to the position one has chosen, and thus ever greater 
engagement in the effort to transform concrete, objective reality. Conversely, 
sectarianism, because it is myth-making and irrational, turns reality into a false 
(and therefore unchangeable) ‘reality’. 

Sectarianism in any quarter is an obstacle to the emancipa-tion of mankind. The 
Rightist version thereof does not always, unfortunately, call forth its natural 
counterpart: radicalization of the revolutionary. Not infrequently, revolutionaries 
them-selves become reactionary by falling into sectarianism in the process of 
responding to the sectarianism of the Right. This possibility, however, should not 
lead the radical to become a docile pawn of the elites. Engaged in the process of 
liberation, he cannot remain passive in the face of the oppressor’s violence. 

On the other hand, the radical is never a subjectivist. For him the subjective 
aspect exists only in relation to the objective aspect (the concrete reality which is 
the object of his analysis). Subjectivity and objectivity thus join in a dialectical 
unity producing knowledge in solidarity with action, and vice versa. 



For his part, the sectarian of whatever persuasion, blinded by his irrationality, 
does not (or cannot) perceive the dynamic of reality - or else he misinterprets it. 
Should he think dialectic-ally, it is with a ‘domesticated dialectic’. The Rightist 
sectarian whom I have earlier, in Educayao como Pratica da Liberdade, termed a 
‘bom sectarian’) wants to slow down the historical process, to ‘domesticate’ time 
and thus to domesticate men. The Leftist-tumed-sectarian goes totally astray when 
he attempts to interpret reality and history dialectically, and falls into essentially 
fatalistic positions. 

The Rightist sectarian differs from his Leftist counterpart in that the former 
attempts to domesticate the present so that (he hopes) the future will reproduce this 
domesticated present, while the latter considers the future pre-established - a kind 
of inevitable fate, fortune, or destiny. For the Rightist sectarian, ‘today’, linked to 
the past, is something given and immutable; for the Leftist sectarian, ‘tomorrow’ is 
decreed beforehand, is inexorably pre-ordained. This Rightist and this Leftist are 
both reactionary because, starting from their respective false views of history, both 
develop forms of action which negate freedom. The fact that one man imagines a 
‘well-behaved’ present and the other a predetermined future does not mean that 
they therefore fold their arms and become spectators (the former expecting that the 
present will continue, the latter waiting for the already ‘known’ future to come to 
pass). On the contrary, closing themselves into ‘circles of certainty’ from which 
they cannot escape, these men ‘make’ their own truth. It is not the truth of men 
who struggle to build the future, running the risks involved in this very 
construction. Nor is it the truth of men who fight side by side and learn together 
how to build this future - which is not something given to be received by men, but 
is rather something to be created by them. Both types of sectarian, treating history 
in an equally proprietary fashion end up without the people - which are another 
way of being against them. 

While the Rightist sectarian, closing himself in ‘ his’ truth, does no more than 
fulfil his natural role, the Leftist who becomes sectarian and rigid negates his very 
nature. Each, however, as he revolves about ‘his’ truth, feels threatened if that truth 
is questioned. Thus, each considers anything that is not ‘his’ truth a He. As the 
journalist Marcio Moreira Alves once told me: “They both suffer from an absence 
of doubt. ’ 

The radical, committed to human liberation, does not become the prisoner of a 
‘circle of certainty’ within which he also imprisons reality. On the contrary, the 
more radical he is, the more fully he enters into reality so that, knowing it better, he 
can better transform it. He is not afraid to confront, to listen, to see the world 
unveiled. He is not afraid to meet the people or to enter into dialogue with them. 



He does not consider himself the proprietor of history or of men, or the liberator of 
the oppressed; but he does commit himself, within history, to fight at their side. 

The pedagogy of the oppressed, the introductory outlines of which are presented 
in the following pages, is a task for radicals; it cannot be carried out by sectarians. 

I will be satisfied if among the readers of this work there are those sufficiently 
critical to correct mistakes and mis-understandings, to deepen affirmations and to 
point out aspects I have not perceived. It is possible that some may question my 
right to discuss revolutionary cultural action, a subject of which I have no concrete 
experience. However, the fact that I have not personally participated in 
revolutionary action does not disqualify me from reflecting on this theme. 
Furthermore, in my experience as an educator with the people, using a dialogical 
and problem-posing education, I have accumulated a comparative wealth of 
material which challenged me to run the risk of making the affirmations contained 
in this work. 

From these pages I hope at least the following will endure: my trust in the 
people, and my faith in men and in the creation of a world in which it will be easier 
to love. 

Here I would like to express my gratitude to Elza, my wife and ‘first reader’, for 
the understanding and encouragement she has shown my work, which belongs to 
her as well. I would also like to extend my thanks to a group of friends for their 
comments on my manuscript. At the risk of omitting some names, I must mention 
Joao da Veiga Coutinho, Richard Shaull, Jim Lamb, Myra and Jovelino Ramos, 
Paulo de Tarso, Almino Affonso, Plinio Sampaio, Emani Maria FJori, Marcela 
Gajardo, Jos6 Luis Fiori, and Joao Zacarioti. The responsibility for the affirmations 
made herein is, of course, mine alone. 


Chapter 1 

While the problem of humanization has always been, from an axiological point 
of view, man’s central problem, it now takes on the character of an inescapable 
concern. Concern for humanization leads at once to the recognition of 
dehumanization, not only as an ontological possibility but as an historical reality. 
And as man perceives the extent of dehumanization, he asks himself if 
humanization is a viable possibility. Within history, in concrete, objective contexts, 
both humanization and dehumanization are possibilities for man as an uncompleted 
being conscious of his incompleteness. 

But while both humanization and dehumanization are real alternatives, only the 
first is man’s vocation. This vocation is constantly negated, yet it is affirmed by 
that very negation. It is thwarted by injustice, exploitation, oppression, and the 


violence of the oppressors; it is affirmed by the yearning of the oppressed for 
freedom and justice, and by their struggle to recover their lost humanity. 

Dehumanization, which marks not only those whose humanity, has been stolen, 
but also (though in a different way) those who have stolen it, is a distortion of the 
vocation of becoming more fully human. This distortion occurs within history; but 
it is not an historical vocation. Indeed, to accept dehumanization as an historical 
vocation would lead either to cynicism or total despair. The struggle for 
humanization, for the emancipation of labour, for the overcoming of aliena-tion, 
for the affirmation of men as persons would be meaningless. This struggle is 
possible only because dehumanization, although a concrete historical fact, is not a 
given destiny but the result of an unjust order that engenders violence in the 
oppressors, which in turn dehumanizes the oppressed. 

Because it is a distortion of being more fully human, sooner or later being less 
human leads the oppressed to struggle against those who made them so. In order 
for this struggle to have meaning, the oppressed must hot, in seeking to regain their 
humanity (which is a way to create it), become in turn oppres-sors of the 
oppressors, but rather restorers of the humanity of both. 

This, then, is the great humanistic and historical task of the oppressed: to 
liberate themselves and their oppressors as well. The oppressors, who oppress, 
exploit, and rape by virtue of their power, cannot find in this power the strength to 
liberate either the oppressed or themselves. Only power that springs from the 
weakness of the oppressed will be sufficiently strong to free both. Any attempt to 
‘soften’ the power of the oppressor in deference to the weakness of the oppressed 
almost always manifests itself in the form of false generosity; indeed, the attempt 
never goes beyond this. In order to have the continued opportunity to express their 
‘generosity’, the oppressors must perpetuate injustice as well. An unjust social 
order is the permanent fount of this ‘generosity’, which is nourished by death, 
despair, and poverty. That is why its dispensers become desperate at the slightest 
threat to the source of that false generosity. 

True generosity consists precisely in fighting to destroy the causes which 
nourish false charity. False charity constrains the fearful and subdued, the ‘rejects 
of life’, to extend their trembling hands. Real generosity lies in striving so that 
those hands - whether of individuals or entire peoples - need be extended less and 
less in supplication, so that more and more they become human -hands which work 
and, by working, transform the world. 

This lesson and apprenticeship must come, however, from the oppressed 
themselves and from those who are truly with them. By fighting for the restoration 
of their humanity, as individuals or as peoples, they will be attempting the 



restoration of true generosity. Who are better prepared than the oppressed to 
understand the terrible significance of an oppressive society? Who suffer the 
effects of oppression more than the oppressed? Who can better understand the 
necessity of liberation? It will not be defined by chance but through the praxis of 
their quest for it, through recognizing the necessity to fight for it. And this fight, 
because of the purpose given it by the oppressed, will actually constitute an act of 
love opposing the lovelessness which lies at the heart of the oppressors’ violence, 
lovelessness even when clothed in false generosity. 

But almost always, during the initial stage of the struggle, the oppressed, instead 
of striving for liberation, tend themselves to become oppressors, or ‘sub- 
oppressors’. The very structure of their thought has been conditioned by the 
contradictions of the concrete, existential situation by which they were shaped. 
Their ideal is to be men; but for them, to be a ‘man’ is to be an oppressor. This is 
their model of humanity. This phenomenon derives from the fact that the 
oppressed, at a certain moment of their existential experience, adopt an attitude of 
‘adherence’ to the oppressor. Under these circumstances they cannot ‘consider’ 
him sufficiently clearly to objectify him - to discover him ‘outside’ themselves. 
This does not necessarily mean that the oppressed are not aware that they are 
down-trodden. But their perception of themselves as oppressed is impaired by their 
submersion in the reality of oppression. At this level, their perception of 
themselves as opposites of the oppressor does not yet signify involvement in a 
struggle to overcome the contradiction; the one pole aspires not to liberation, but to 
identification with its opposite pole. 

In this situation the oppressed cannot see the ‘new man’ as the man to be bom 
from the resolution of this contradiction in the process of oppression giving way to 
liberation. For them, the new man is themselves become oppressors. Their vision 
of the new man is individualistic; because of their identification with the oppressor, 
they have no consciousness of themselves as persons or as members of an 
oppressed class. It is not to become free men that they want agrarian reform, but in 
order to acquire land and thus become landowners - or, more precisely, bosses over 
other workers. It is a rare peasant who, once ‘promoted’ to overseer, does not 
become more of a tyrant towards his former comrades than the owner himself. This 
is because the context of the peasant’s situation, that is, oppression, remains 
unchanged. In this example, the overseer, in order to make sure of his job, must be 
as tough as the owner - and more so. This illustrates our previous assertion that 
during the initial stage of their stmggle the oppressed find in the oppressor their 
model of ‘manhood’. 

Even revolution, which transforms a concrete situation of oppression by 
establishing the process of liberation, must confront this phenomenon. Many of the 



oppressed who directly or indirectly participate in revolution intend - conditioned 
by the myths of the old order - to make it their private revolution. The shadow pf 
their former oppressor is still cast over them. 

The ‘fear of freedom’ which afflicts the oppressed, a fear which may equally 
well lead them to desire the role of oppressor or bind them to the role of oppressed, 
should be examined. One of the basic elements of the relationship between 
oppressor and oppressed is prescription. Every prescription represents the 
imposition of one man’s choice upon another, transforming the consciousness of 
the man prescribed to into one that conforms to the prescriber’s consciousness. 
Thus, the behaviour of the oppressed is a prescribed behaviour, following as it does 
the guidelines of the oppressor. 

The oppressed, having internalized the image of the oppressor and adopted his 
guidelines are fearful of freedom. Freedom would require them to eject this image 
and replace it with autonomy and responsibility. Freedom is acquired by conquest, 
not by gift. It must be pursued constantly and responsibly. Freedom is not an ideal 
located outside of man; nor is it an idea which becomes myth. It is rather the 
indispensable condition for the quest for human completion. 

To surmount the situation of oppression, men must first critically recognize its 
causes, so that through transforming action they can create a new situation - one 
which makes possible the pursuit of a fuller humanity. But the struggle to be more 
fully human has already begun in the authentic struggle to transform the situation. 
Although the situation of oppression is a dehumanized and dehumanizing totality 
affecting both the oppressors and those whom they oppress, it is the latter who 
must, from their stifled humanity, wage for both the struggle for a fuller humanity; 
the oppressor, who is himself dehumanized because he dehumanizes others, is 
unable to lead this struggle. 

However, the oppressed, who have adapted to the structure of domination in 
which they are immersed, and have become resigned to it, are inhibited from 
waging the struggle for freedom so long as they feel incapable of running the risks 
it requires. Moreover, their struggle for freedom threatens not only the oppressor, 
but also their own oppressed comrades who are fearful of still greater repression. 
When they discover within themselves the yearning to be free, they perceive that 
this yearning can be transformed into reality only when the same yearning is 
aroused in their comrades. But while domin-ated by the fear of freedom they refuse 
to appeal to, or listen to the appeals of, others, or even to the appeals of their own 
conscience. They prefer gregariousness to authentic comradeship; they prefer the 
security of conformity with their state of unfreedom to the creative communion 
produced by freedom and even the very pursuit of freedom. 



The oppressed suffer from the duality which has established itself in their 
innermost being. They discover that without freedom they cannot exist 
authentically. Yet, although they desire authentic existence, they fear it. They are 
at one and the same time themselves and the oppressor whose consciousness they 
have internalized. The conflict lies in the choice between being wholly themselves 
or being divided; between ejecting the oppressor within or not ejecting him; 
between human solidarity or alienation; between following prescriptions or having 
choices; between being spectators or actors; between acting pr having the illusion 
of acting through the action of the oppressors; between speaking out or being 
silent, castrated in their power to create and recreate, in their power to transform 
the world. This is the tragic dilemma of the oppressed which their education must 
take into account. 

This book will present some aspects of what the writer has termed the 
‘pedagogy of the oppressed’, a pedagogy which must be forged with, not for, the 
oppressed (be they individuals or whole peoples) in the incessant struggle to regain 
their humanity. This pedagogy makes oppression and its causes objects of 
reflection by the oppressed, and from that reflection will come their necessary 
engagement in the struggle for their liberation. And in the struggle this pedagogy 
will be made and remade. 

The central problem is this: How can the oppressed, as divided, unauthentic 
beings, participate in developing the pedagogy of their liberation? Only as they 
discover themselves to be ‘hosts’ of the oppressor can they contribute to the 
midwifery of their liberating pedagogy. As long as they live in the duality where to 
be is to be like, and to be like is to be like the oppressor, this contribution is 
impossible. The pedagogy of the oppressed is an instrument for their critical 
discovery that both they and their oppressors are manifestations of 
dehumanization. 

Liberation is thus a child birth, and a painful one. The man who emerges is a 
new man, viable only as the oppressor-oppressed contradiction is superseded by 
the humanization of all men. Or to put it another way, the solution of this 
contradiction is bom in the labour which brings this new man into the world: no 
longer oppressor or oppressed, but man in the process of achieving freedom. 

This solution cannot be achieved in idealistic terms. In order for the oppressed to 
be able to wage the stmggle for their liberation, they must perceive the reality of 
oppression, not as a closed world from which there is no exit, but as a limiting 
situation which they can transform. This perception is necessary, but not a 
sufficient condition by itself for liberation; it must become the motivating force for 
liberating action. Neither does the discovery by the oppressed that they exist in 
dialectical relationship as antithesis to the oppressor who could not exist without 



them (see Hegel’s The Phenomenology of Mind) in itself constitute liberation. The 
oppressed can overcome the contradiction in which they are caught only when this 
perception enlists them in the struggle to free themselves. 

The same is true with respect to the individual oppressor as a person. 
Discovering himself to be an oppressor may cause considerable anguish, but it 
does not necessarily lead to solidarity with the oppressed. Rationalizing his guilt 
through paternalistic treatment of the oppressed, all the while holding them fast in 
a position of dependence, will not do. Solidarity requires that one enter into the 
situation of those with whom one is identifying; it is a radical posture. If what 
characterizes the oppressed is their subordination to the consciousness of the 
master, as Hegel affirms, true solidarity with the oppressed means righting at their 
side to transform the objective reality which has made them these ‘beings for 
another’. The oppressor shows solidarity with the oppressed only when he stops 
regarding the oppressed as an abstract category and sees them as persons who have 
been unjustly dealt with, deprived of their voice, cheated in the sale of their labour 
- when he stops making pious, sentimental, and individualistic gestures and risks 
an act of love. True solidarity is found only in the plenitude of this act of love, in 
its existentiality, in its praxis. It is a farce to affirm that men are people and thus 
should be free, yet to do nothing tangible to make this affirmation a reality. 

Since it is in a concrete situation that the oppressor-oppressed contradiction is 
established, the resolution of this contradiction must be objectively verifiable. 
Hence, for radicals - both for the man who discovers himself to be an oppressor 
and for the oppressed - the concrete situation which begets oppression must be 
transformed. 

To present this radical demand for the objective trans-formation of reality, to 
combat subjectivist immobility which would divert the recognition of oppression 
into patient waiting for oppression to disappear by itself, is not to dismiss the role 
of subjectivity in the struggle to change structures. On the contrary, one cannot 
conceive of objectivity without sub-jectivity. Neither can exist without the other, 
nor can they be dichotomized. The separation of objectivity from subjectivity, the 
denial of the latter when analysing reality or acting upon it, is objectivism. On the 
other hand, the denial of objectivity in analysis or action, resulting in a 
subjectivism which leads to solipsistic positions, denies action itself by denying 
objective reality. Neither objectivism nor subjectivism, nor yet psychologism is 
propounded here, but rather subjectivity and objectivity in constant dialectical 
relationship. 

To deny the importance of subjectivity in the process of transforming the world 
and history is naive and simplistic. It is to admit the impossible: a world without 
men. This objectivistic position is as ingenuous as that of subjectivism, which 



postulates men without a world. World and men do not exist apart from each other, 
they exist in constant interaction. Marx does not espouse such a dichotomy, nor 
does any other critical, realistic thinker. What Marx criticized and scientifically 
destroyed was not subjectivity, but subjectivism and psychologism. Just as 
objective social reality exists not by chance, but as the product of human action, so 
it is not transformed by chance. If men produce social reality (which in the 
‘inversion of the praxis turns back upon them and conditions them), then 
transforming that reality is an historical task, a task for men. 

Reality which becomes oppressive results in the contra-distinction of men as 
oppressors and oppressed. The latter, whose task it is to struggle for their liberation 
together with those who show true solidarity, must acquire a critical aware-ness of 
oppression through the praxis of this struggle. One of the gravest obstacles to the 
achievement of liberation is that oppressive reality absorbs those within it and 
thereby acts to submerge men’s consciousness. Functionally, oppression is 
domesticating. To no longer be prey to its force, one must emerge from it and turn 
upon it. This can be done only by means of the praxis: reflection and action upon 
the world in order to transform it. 

Hay que hacer la opresion real todavla mas opresiva afladiendo a aquella la 
conctencia de la opresion haciendo la infamia todavia mas infamante, al 
pregonarla. ’ 

Making ‘real oppression more oppressive still by adding to it the realization of 
oppression’ corresponds to the dialectical relation between the subjective and the 
objective. Only in this state of interdependence is an authentic praxis possible, 
without which it is impossible to resolve the oppressor-oppressed contradiction. To 
achieve this goal, the oppressed must confront reality critically, simultaneously 
objectifying and acting upon that reality, A mere perception of reality not followed 
by this critical intervention will not lead to a transformation of objective reality - 
precisely because it is not a true perception. This is the case of a purely subjectivist 
perception by someone who forsakes objective reality and creates a false 
substitute. 

A different type of false perception occurs when a change in objective reality 
would threaten the individual or class interests of the perceiver. In the first 
instance, there is no critical intervention in reality because that reality is fictitious: 
there is none in the second instance because intervention would contradict the class 
interests of the perceiver. In the latter case the tendency of the perceiver is to 
behave ‘neurotically’. The fact exists; but both the fact and what may result from it 
may be prejudicial to him. Thus it becomes necessary, not precisely to deny the 
fact, but to see it differently. This rationalization as a defence mechanism coincides 
in the end with subjectivism. A fact with its truths rationalized, though not denied, 



loses its objective base. It ceases to be concrete and becomes a myth created in 
defence of the class of the perceiver. 

Herein lies one of the reasons for the prohibitions and the difficulties (to be 
discussed at length in chapter 4) designed to dissuade the people from critical 
intervention in reality. The oppressor knows full well that this intervention would 
not be to his interest. What is to his interest is for the people to continue in a state 
of submersion, impotent in the face of oppressive reality. Lukacs’ warning to the 
revolutionary party in Lenine is relevant here: 

.,. il droit, pour employer les mots de Marx, expliquer aux masses leur propre 
action non seulement afin d’ assurer la continuity des experiences revolutionnaires 
du proletariat, mais aussi d’activer consciemment le developpement ulterieur de 
ces experiences. 

In asserting this need, Lukacs is unquestionably raising the issue of critical 
intervention. ‘To explain to the masses their own action’ is to clarify and 
illuminate that action, both in terms of its relationship to the objective facts which 
promoted it, and also of its aims. The more the people unveil this challenging 
reality which is to be the object of their trans-forming action, the more critically 
they enter that reality. In this way they are ‘consciously activating the subsequent 
development of their experiences’. There would be no human action if there were 
no objective reality, no world to be the ‘not I’ of man to challenge him; just as 
there would be no human action if man were not a ‘projection’, if he were not able 
to transcend himself, to perceive his reality and understand it in order to transform 
it. 

In dialectical thought, world and action are intimately interdependent. But action 
is human only when it is not merely an occupation but also a preoccupation, that is, 
when it is not dichotomized from reflection. Reflection, which is essential to 
action, is implicit in Lukacs’ requirement of explaining to the masses their own 
action*, just as it is implicit in the purpose he attributes to this explanation: that of 
‘consciously activating the subsequent development of experience’. 

For us, however, the requirement is seen not in terms of explaining to, but rather 
entering into a dialogue with, the people about their actions. In any event, no 
reality transforms itself, and the duty which Lukacs ascribes to the revolutionary 
party of ‘explaining to the masses their own action’ coincides with our affirmation 
of the need for the critical intervention of the people in reality through the praxis. 
The pedagogy of the oppressed, which is the pedagogy of men engaged in the fight 
for their own liberation, has its roots here. And those who recognize, or begin to 
recognize, themselves as oppressed must be among the developers of this 
pedagogy. No pedagogy which is truly liberating can remain distant from the 



oppressed by treating them as unfortunates and by presenting for their emulation 
models from among the oppressors. The oppressed must be their own example in 
the struggle for their redemption. The pedagogy of the oppressed, animated by 
authentic, humanist (not humanitarian) generosity, presents itself as a pedagogy of 
man. Pedagogy which begins with the egoistic interests of the oppressors (an 
egoism cloaked in the false generosity of paternalism) and makes of the oppressed 
the objects of its humanitarianism, itself maintains and embodies oppression. It is 
an instrument of dehumanization. This is why, as we affirmed earlier, the 
pedagogy of the oppressed cannot be developed or practised by the oppressors. It 
would be a contradiction in terms if the oppressors not only defended but actually 
implemented a liberating education. 

But if the implementation of a liberating education requires political power and 
the oppressed have none, how then is it possible to carry out the pedagogy of the 
oppressed prior to the revolution? This is a question of the greatest importance, the 
reply to which is at least tentatively outlined in chapter 4. One aspect of the reply is 
to be found in the distinction between systematic education, which can only be 
changed by political power, and educational projects, which should be carried out 
with the oppressed in the process of organizing them. 

The pedagogy of the oppressed, as a humanist and libertarian pedagogy, has two 
distinct stages. In the first, the oppressed unveil the world of oppression and 
through the praxis commit themselves to its transformation. In the second stage, in 
which the reality of oppression has already been transformed, this pedagogy ceases 
to belong to the oppressed and becomes a pedagogy of all men in the process of 
permanent liberation. In both stages, it is always through action in depth that the 
culture of domination is culturally confronted. In the first stage this confrontation 
occurs through the change in the way the oppressed perceive the world of 
oppression; in the second Stage, through the expulsion of the myths created and 
developed in the old order, which like spectres haunt the new structure emerging 
from the revolutionary transformation. 

In its first stage the pedagogy must deal with the problem of the consciousness 
of the oppressed and the oppressor, the problem of men who oppress and men who 
suffer oppression. It must take into account their behaviour, their view of the 
world, and their ethics. A particular problem is the duality of the op-pressed: they 
are contradictory, divided beings, shaped by and existing in a concrete situation of 
oppression and violence. 

Any situation in which A objectively exploits B or hinders his pursuit of self- 
affirmation as a responsible person is one of oppression. Such a situation in itself 
constitutes violence, even when sweetened by false generosity, because it 
interferes with man’s ontological and historical vocation to be more fully human. 



With the establishment of a relationship of oppression, violence has already begun. 
Never in history has violence been initiated by the oppressed. How could they be 
the initiators, if they themselves are the product of violence? How could they be 
the sponsors of something whose objective inauguration called forth their existence 
as oppressed? There would be no oppressed had there been no prior situation of 
violence to establish their subjugation. 

Violence is initiated by those who oppress, who exploit, who fail to recognize 
others as people - not by those who are oppressed, exploited, and unrecognized. It 
is not the unloved who cause disaffection, but those who cannot love because they 
love only themselves. It is not the helpless, subject to terror, who initiate terror, but 
the violent, who with their power create the concrete situation which begets the 
‘rejects of life’. It is not the tyrannized who are the source of despotism, but the 
tyrants; nor the despised who initiate hatred, but those who despise. It is not those 
whose humanity is denied them who negate man, but those who denied that 
humanity (thus negating their own as well). Force is used not by those who have 
become weak under the preponderance of the strong, but by the strong who have 
emasculated them. 

For the oppressors, however, it is always the oppressed (whom they obviously 
never call’ the oppressed’ but - depend-ing on whether they are fellow countrymen 
or not - ‘those people’ or ‘the blind and envious masses’ or ‘savages’ or ‘natives’ 
or ‘subversives’) who are disaffected, who are ‘violent’, ‘ barbaric’, ‘wicked’, or 
‘ferocious’ when they react to the violence of the oppressors. 

Yet it is - paradoxical though it may seem - precisely in the response of the 
oppressed to the violence of their oppressors that a gesture of love may be found. 
Consciously or un-consciously, the act of rebellion by the oppressed (an act which 
is always, or nearly always, as violent as the initial violence of the oppressors) can 
initiate love. Whereas the violence of the oppressors prevents the oppressed from 
being fully human, the response of the latter to this violence is grounded in the 
desire to pursue the right to be human, As the oppressors dehumanize others and 
violate their rights, they themselves also become dehumanized. As the oppressed, 
fighting to be human, take away the oppressors’ power to dominate and suppress, 
they restore to the oppressors the humanity they had lost in the exercise of 
oppression. 

It is only the oppressed who, by freeing themselves, can free their oppressors. 
The latter, as an oppressive class, can free neither others nor themselves. It is 
therefore essential that the oppressed wage the struggle to resolve the contradiction 
in which they are caught. That contradiction will be resolved by the appearance of 
the new man who is neither oppressor nor oppressed - man in the process of 
liberation. If the goal of the oppressed is to become fully human, they will not 



achieve their goal by merely reversing the terms of the contradiction, by simply 
changing poles. 

This may seem simplistic: it is not. Resolution of the oppressor-oppressed 
contradiction indeed implies the disappearance of the oppressors as a dominant 
class. However, the restraints imposed by the former oppressed on their 
oppressors, so that the latter cannot reassume their former position, do not 
constitute oppression. An act is oppressive only when it prevents men from being 
more fully human. Accordingly, these necessary restraints do not in themselves 
signify that yesterday’s oppressed have become today’s oppressors. Behaviour 
which prevents the restoration of the oppressive regime cannot be compared with 
acts which create and maintain it. One cannot compare it with acts by which few 
men deny the majority their right to be human. 

However, the moment the new regime hardens into a domin-ating ‘bureaucracy’ 
the humanist dimension of the struggle is lost and it is no longer possible to speak 
of liberation. Hence our insistence that the authentic solution of the oppressor - 
oppressed contradiction does not lie in a mere reversal of position, in moving from 
one pole to the other. Nor does it lie in the replacement of the former oppressors 
with new ones who continue to subjugate the oppressed - all in the name of their 
liberation. 

But even when contradiction is resolved authentically by a new situation 
established by liberated workers, the former oppressors do not feel liberated. On 
the contrary, they genuinely consider themselves to be oppressed. Condi-tioned by 
the experience of oppressing others, any situation other than their former seems to 
them like oppression. Formerly, they could eat, dress, wear shoes, be educated, 
travel, and hear Beethoven; while millions did not eat, had no clothes or shoes, 
neither studied nor travelled, much less listened to Beethoven. Any restriction on 
this way of life, in the name of the rights of the community, appears to the former 
oppressors as a profound violation of their individual rights - although they had no 
respect for the millions who suffered and died of hunger, pain, sorrow, and despair. 
For the oppressors, ‘human beings’ refers only to themselves; other people are 
‘things’. For the oppressors, there exists only one right: their right to live in peace, 
over against the right, not always even recognized, but merely conceded, of the 
oppressed to survival. And they make this concession only because the existence of 
the oppressed is necessary to their own existence. 

This behaviour and way of understanding the world and men (which necessarily 
makes the oppressors resist the installation of a new regime) is explained by their 
experience as a dominant class. Once a situation of violence and oppression has 
been established, it engenders an entire way of life and behaviour for those caught 
up in it - oppressors and oppressed alike. Both are submerged in this situation, and 



both bear the marks of oppression. Analysis of existential situations of oppression 
reveals that their inception lay in an act of violence - initiated by those with power. 
This violence, as a process, is perpetuated from generation to generation of 
oppressors, who become its heirs and are shaped in its climate. This climate creates 
in the oppressor a strongly possessive consciousness - possessive of the world and 
of men. Apart from direct, concrete, material possession of the world and of men, 
the oppressor consciousness could not understand itself - could not even exist. 
Fromm said of this consciousness that, without such possession, ‘it would lose 
contact with the world’. The oppressor con-sciousness tends to transform 
everything surrounding it into an object of its domination. The earth, property, 
production, the creations of men, men themselves, time - everything is reduced to 
the status of objects at its disposal. 

In their unrestrained eagerness to possess, the oppressors develop the conviction 
that it is possible for them to transform everything into objects of their purchasing 
power; hence their strictly materialistic concept of existence. Money is the measure 
of all things, and profit the primary goal. For the oppressors, what is worthwhile is 
to have more - always more - even at the cost of the oppressed having less or 
having nothing. For them, to be is to have and to be o/the ‘having’ class. 

As beneficiaries of a situation of oppression, the oppressors cannot perceive that 
if having is a condition of being, it is a necessary condition for all men. This is why 
their generosity is false. Humanity is a ‘thing’, and they possess it as an exclusive 
right, as inherited property. To the oppressor consciousness, the humanization of 
the ‘others’, of the people, appears as subversion, not as the pursuit of full 
humanity. 

The oppressors do not perceive their monopoly of having more as a privilege 
which dehumanizes others and themselves. They cannot see that, in the egoistic 
pursuit of having as a possessing class, they suffocate in their own possessions and 
no longer are; they merely have. For them, having more is an inalienable right, a 
right they acquired through their own ‘effort’, with their ‘courage to take risks’. If 
others do not have more, it is because they are incompetent and lazy, and worst of 
all is their unjustifiable ingratitude towards the ‘generous gestures’ of the dominant 
class. Precisely because they are ‘ungrateful’ and ‘envious’, the oppressed are 
regarded as potential enemies who must be watched. 

It could not be otherwise. If the humanization of the oppressed si g nifies 
subversion, so also does their freedom; hence the necessity for constant control. 
And the more the oppressors control the oppressed, the more they change them 
into apparently inanimate ‘things’. This tendency of the oppressor consciousness to 
render everything and everyone it encounters inanimate, in its eagerness to possess, 



unquestion-ably corresponds with a tendency to sadism. Here is Fromm in The 
Heart of Man: 

The pleasure in complete domination over another person (or other animate 
creature) is the very essence of the sadistic drive. Another way of formulating the 
same thought is to say that the aim of sadism is to transform a man into a thing, 
something animate into something inanimate, since by complete and absolute 
control the living loses one essential quality of life - freedom. 

Sadistic love is a perverted love - a love of death, not of life. Thus, one of the 
characteristics of the oppressor consciousness and its necrophilic view of the world 
is sadism. As the oppressor consciousness, in order to dominate, tries to thwart the 
seeking, restless impulse, and the creative power which characterize life, it kills 
life. More and more, the oppressors are using science and technology as 
unquestionably powerful instruments for their purpose: the maintenance of the 
oppressive order through manipulation and repression. The oppressed, as objects, 
as ‘things’, have no purposes except those their oppressors pre-scribe for them. 

In the light of what has been said, another issue of indubitable importance arises: 
the fact that certain members of the oppressor class join the oppressed in their 
struggle for liberation, thus moving from one pole of the contradiction to the other. 
Theirs is a fundamental role, and has been so throughout the history of this 
struggle. It happens, however, that as they cease to be exploiters or indifferent 
spectators or simply the heirs of exploitation and move to the side of the exploited, 
they almost always bring with them the marks of their origin: their prejudices and 
their deformations, which include a lack of con-fidence in the people’s ability to 
think, to want, and to know. Accordingly, these adherents to the people’s cause 
constantly run the risk of falling into a type of generosity as harmful as that of the 
oppressors. The generosity of the oppressors is nourished by an unjust order, which 
must be maintained in order to justify that generosity. Our converts, on the other 
hand, truly desire to transform the unjust order; but because of their background 
they believe that they must be the executors of the transformation. They talk about 
the people, but they do not trust them; and trusting the people is the indispensable 
precondition for revolutionary change. A real humanist can be identified more by 
his trust in the people, which engages him in their struggle, than by a thousand 
actions in their favour without that trust. 

Those who authentically commit themselves to the people must re-examine 
themselves constantly. This conversion is so radical as not to allow for ambivalent 
behaviour. To affirm this commitment but to consider oneself the proprietor of 
revolu-tionary wisdom - which must then be given to (or imposed on) the people - 
is to retain the old ways. The man who proclaims devotion to the cause of 
liberation yet is unable to enter into communion with the people, whom he 


continues to regard as totally ignorant, is grievously self-deceived. The convert 
who approaches the people but feels alarm at each step they take, each doubt they 
express, and each suggestion they offer, and attempts to impose his ‘status’, 
remains nostalgic towards his origins. 

Conversion to the people requires a profound rebirth. Those who undergo it 
must take on a new form of existence; they can no longer remain as they were. 
Only through comradeship with the oppressed can the converts understand their 
characteristic ways of living and behaving, which in diverse moments reflect the 
structure of domination. One of these characteristics is the previously mentioned 
existential duality of the oppressed, who are at the same time themselves and the 
oppressor whose image they have internalized. Accordingly, until they concretely 
‘discover’ their oppressor and in turn their own consciousness, they nearly always 
express fatalistic attitudes towards their situation. 

The peasant begins to get courage to overcome his dependence when he realizes 
that he is dependent. Until then, he goes along with the’ boss and says ‘What can I 
do? I’m only a peasant.’ 

When superficially analysed, this fatalism is sometimes inter-preted as a docility 
that is a trait of national character. Fatalism in the guise of docility is the fruit of an 
historical and sociologi-cal situation, not an essential characteristic of a people’s 
behaviour. It is almost always related to the power of destiny or fate or fortune - 
inevitable forces - or to a distorted view of God. Under the sway of magic and 
myth, the oppressed -especially the peasants, who are almost submerged in nature 
(see Mendes’ Memento de Vivas) - see their suffering, the fruit of exploitation, as 
the will of God - as if God were the creator of this ‘organized disorder’. 

Submerged in reality, the oppressed cannot perceive clearly the ‘order’ which 
serves the interests of the oppressors whose image they have internalized. Chafing 
under the restrictions of this order, they often manifest a type of horizontal 
violence, striking out at their own comrades for the pettiest reasons. Frantz Fanon, 
in The Wretched of the Earth, writes: 

The colonized man will first manifest this aggressiveness which has been 
deposited in his bones against his own people. This is the period when the niggers 
beat each other up, and the police and magistrates do not know which way to turn 
when faced with the astonishing waves of crime in North Africa.... While the 
settler or the policeman has the right the livelong day to strike the native, to insult 
him and to make him crawl to them, you will see the native reaching for his knife 
at the slightest hostile or aggressive glance cast on him by an-other native; for the 
last resort of the native is to defend his personality vis-a-vis his brother. 


It is possible that in this behaviour they are once more mani-festing their duality, 
because the oppressor exists within their oppressed comrades, when they attack 
those comrades they are indirectly attacking the oppressor as well. 

On the other hand, at a certain point in their existential experience the oppressed 
feel an irresistible attraction towards the oppressor and his way of life. Sharing his 
way of life becomes an overpowering aspiration. In their alienation, the oppressed 
want at any cost to resemble the oppressor, to imitate him, to follow him. This 
phenomenon is especially prevalent in the middle-class oppressed, who yearn to be 
equal to the ‘eminent’ men of the upper class. Albert Memmi, in an exceptional 
analysis of the ‘colonized mentality’, The Colonizer and the Colonized, refers to 
the contempt he felt towards the colonizer, mixed with ‘passionate’ attraction 
towards him. 

How could the colonizer look after his workers while periodically gunning down 
a crowd of colonized? How could the colonized deny himself so cruelly yet make 
such excessive demands? How could he hate the colonizers and yet admire them so 
passionately? (I too felt this admiration in spite of myself.) 

Self-depreciation is another characteristic of the oppressed, which derives from 
their internalization of the opinion the oppressors hold of them. So often do they 
hear that they are good for nothing, know nothing and are incapable of learning 
anything - that they are sick, lazy, and unproductive - that in the end they become 
convinced of their own unfitness. ‘The peasant feels inferior to the boss because 
the boss seems to be the only one who knows things and is able to run things.’ 

They call themselves ignorant and say the ‘professor’ is the one who has 
knowledge and to whom they should listen. The criteria of knowledge imposed 
upon them are the con-ventional ones. ‘Why don’t you*, said a peasant 
participating in a culture circle, ‘explain the pictures first? That way it’ll take less 
time and won’t give us a headache,’ 

Almost never do they realize that they, too, ‘know things’ they have learned in 
their relations with the world and with other men. Given the circumstances which 
have produced their duality, it is only natural that they distrust themselves. 

Not infrequently peasants in educational projects begin to discuss a generative 
theme in a lively manner, then stop suddenly and say to the educator: ‘Excuse us, 
we should keep quiet and let you talk. You are the one who knows, we don’t know 
anything’. They often insist that there is no difference between them and the 
animals; when they do admit a difference, it favours the animals.’ They are freer 
than we are.’ 

It is striking, however, to observe how this self-depreciation changes with the 
first changes in the situation of oppression. I heard a peasant leader say in an 


asentamiento meeting, ‘They used to say we were unproductive because we were 
lazy and drunkards. All lies. Now that we are respected as men, we’re going to 
show everyone that we were never drunkards or lazy. We were exploited! ’ 

As long as their ambiguity persists, the oppressed are reluctant to resist, and 
totally lack confidence in themselves. They have a diffuse, magical belief in the 
invulnerability and power of the oppressor. The magical force of the land-owner’s 
power holds particular sway in the rural areas. A sociologist friend of mine tells of 
a group of armed peasants in a Latin American country who recently took over a 
latifundium. For tactical reasons, they planned to hold the landowner as a hostage. 
But not one peasant had the courage to guard him; his very presence was terrifying. 
It is also possible that the act of opposing the boss provoked guilt feelings. In truth, 
the boss was’ inside’ them. 

The oppressed must see examples of the vulnerability of the oppressor so that a 
contrary conviction can begin to grow within them. Until this occurs, they will 
continue disheartened, fearful, and beaten (see Debray’s Revolution in the 
Revolution). As long as the oppressed remain unaware of the causes of their 
condition, they fatalistically ‘accept’ their exploitation. Further, they are apt to 
react in a passive and alienated manner when confronted with the necessity to 
struggle for their freedom and self-affirmation. Little by little, however, they tend 
to try out forms of rebellious action. In working towards liberation, one must 
neither lose sight of this passivity nor overlook the moment of awakening. 

Within their unauthentic view of the world and of themselves, the oppressed feel 
like ‘things’ owned by the oppressor. For the latter, to be is to have, almost always 
at the expense of those who have nothing. For the oppressed, at a certain point in 
their existential experience, to be is not to resemble the oppressor, but to be under 
him, to depend on him. Accordingly, the oppressed are emotionally dependent. 

The peasant is a dependant. He can’t say what he wants. Before he discovers his 
dependence, he suffers. He lets off steam at home, where he shouts at his children, 
beats them and despairs. He complains about his wife and thinks everything is 
dreadful. He doesn’t let off steam with the boss because he thinks the boss is a 
superior being. Lots of times, the peasant gives vent to his sorrows by drinking. 

This total emotional dependence can lead the oppressed to what Fromm calls 
necrophilic behaviour: the destruction of life-their own or that of their oppressed 
fellows. 

It is only when the oppressed find the oppressor out and become involved in the 
organized struggle for their liberation that they begin to believe in themselves. This 
discovery cannot be purely intellectual but must involve action; nor can it be 


limited to mere activism, but must include serious reflection: only then will it be a 
praxis. 

Critical and liberating dialogue, which presupposes action, must be carried on 
with the oppressed at whatever stage their struggle for liberation has reached. The 
content of that dialogue can and should vary in accordance, with historical 
conditions and the level at which the oppressed perceive reality. But to substitute 
monologue, slogans and communiques for dialogue is to try to liberate the 
oppressed with the instruments of domestication. Attempting to liberate the 
oppressed without their reflective participation in the act of liberation is to treat 
them as objects which must be saved from a burning building; it is to lead them 
into the populist pitfall and transform them into masses which can be manipulated. 

At all stages of their liberation, the oppressed must see themselves as men 
engaged in the ontological and historical vocation of becoming more fully human. 
Reflection and action become imperative when one does not erroneously attempt to 
create a dichotomy between the content of humanity and its historical forms. 

The insistence that the oppressed engage in reflection on their concrete situation 
is not a call to armchair revolution. On the contrary, reflection - true reflection - 
leads to action. On the other hand, when the situation calls for action, that action 
will constitute an authentic praxis only if its consequences become the object of 
critical reflection. In this sense, the praxis is the new raison d’etre of the 
oppressed; and the revolution, which inaugurates the historical moment of this 
raison d’etre, is not viable apart from their concomitant conscious involvement. 
Otherwise, action is pure activism. 

To achieve this praxis, however, it is necessary to trust in the oppressed and in 
their ability to reason. Whoever lacks this trust will fail to bring about (or will 
abandon) dialogue, reflection and communication, and will fall into using slogans, 
communique’s, monologues and instructions. Superficial conversions to the cause 
of liberation carry this danger. 

Political action on the side of the oppressed must be pedagogical action in the 
authentic sense of the word, hence, action with the oppressed. Those who work for 
liberation must not take advantage of the emotional dependence of the oppressed - 
dependence that is the fruit of the concrete situation of domination which 
surrounds them and which engendered their unauthentic view of the world. Using 
their dependence to create still greater dependence is .an oppressor tactic. 

Libertarian action must recognize this dependence as a weak point and must 
attempt through reflection and action to transform it into independence. However, 
not even the best-intentioned leadership can bestow independence as a gift. The 
liberation of the oppressed is a liberation of men, not things. Accordingly, while no 



one liberates himself by his own efforts alone, neither is he liberated by others. 
Liberation, a human phenomenon, cannot be achieved by semi-humans. Any 
attempt to treat men as semi-humans only dehumanizes them. When men are 
already dehumanized, due to the oppression they suffer, the process of their 
liberation must not employ the methods of dehumanization. 

The correct method for a revolutionary leadership to employ in the task of 
liberation is, therefore, not ‘libertarian propaganda’. Nor can the leadership merely 
‘implant’ in the oppressed a belief in freedom, thus thinking to win their trust. The 
correct method lies in dialogue. The conviction of the oppressed that they must 
fight for their liberation is not a gift bestowed by the revolutionary leadership, but 
the result of their own conscientization. 

The revolutionary leaders must realize that their own con-viction of the need for 
struggle (a crucial dimension of revolutionary wisdom) was not given to them by 
anyone else - if it is authentic. This conviction cannot be packaged and sold; it is 
reached, rather, by means of a totality of reflection and action. Only the leaders’ 
own involvement in reality, within an historical situation, led them to criticize this 
situation and to wish to change it. 

Likewise, the oppressed (who do not commit themselves to the struggle unless 
they are convinced, and who, if they do not make such a commitment, withhold the 
necessary conditions for this struggle) must reach this conviction as Subjects, not 
as objects. They also must intervene critically in the situation which surrounds 
them and marks them: propaganda cannot achieve this. While the conviction of the 
necessity for struggle (without which the struggle is unfeasible) is indispensable to 
the revolutionary leadership (indeed, it was this conviction which constituted that 
leadership), it is also necessary for the oppressed. It is necessary, that is, unless one 
intends to carry out the transformation for the oppressed rather than with them. It is 
my belief that only the latter type of transformation is valid. 

The object in presenting these considerations is to defend the eminently 
pedagogical character of the revolution. The revolutionary leaders of every epoch 
who have affirmed that the oppressed must accept the struggle for their liberation - 
an obvious point - have also thereby implicitly recognized the pedagogical aspect 
of this struggle. Many of these leaders, however (perhaps due to natural and 
understandable biases against pedagogy), have ended up using the ‘educational’ 
methods employed by the oppressor. They deny pedagogical action in the 
liberation process, but they use propaganda to convince. 

It is essential for the oppressed to realize that when they accept the struggle for 
humanization they also accept, from that moment, their total responsibility for the 
struggle. They must realize that they are fighting not merely for freedom from 



hunger, but, to quote Fromm’s The Heart of Man, for... freedom to create and to 
construct, to wonder and to venture. Such freedom requires that the individual be 
active and responsible, not a slave or a well-fed cog in the machine.... It is not 
enough that men are not slaves; if social conditions further the existence of 
automatons, the result will not be love of life, but love of death. The oppressed, 
who have been shaped by the death-affirming climate of oppression, must find 
through their struggle the way to life-affirming humanization, and this does not lie 
simply in having more to eat (though it does involve and cannot fail to include 
having more to eat). The oppressed have been destroyed precisely because their 
situation has reduced them to things. In order to regain their humanity they must 
cease to be things and fight as men. This is a radical requirement. They cannot 
enter the struggle as objects in order later to become men. 

The struggle begins with men’s recognition that they have been destroyed. 
Propaganda, management, manipulation - all arms of domination - cannot be the 
instruments of their re-humanization. The only effective instrument is a 
humanizing pedagogy in which the revolutionary leadership establishes a 
permanent relationship of dialogue with the oppressed. In a humanizing pedagogy 
the method ceases to be an instrument by which the teachers (here, the 
revolutionary leadership) can manipulate the students (the oppressed), because it 
expresses the consciousness of the students themselves. 

The method is, in fact, the external form of consciousness manifest in acts, 
which takes on the fundamental property of consciousness -its intentionality. The 
essence of consciousness is being with the world and this behaviour is permanent 
and unavoidable. Accordingly, con-sciousness is in essence a ‘way towards’ 
something apart from itself, outside itself, which surrounds it and which it 
apprehends by means of its ideational capacity. Consciousness is thus by definition 
a method, in the most general sense of the word.” 

A revolutionary leadership must accordingly practice co-intentional education. 
Teachers and students (leadership and people), co-intent on reality, are both 
Subjects, not only in the task of unveiling that reality, and thereby coming to know 
it critically, but in the task of recreating that knowledge. As they attain this 
knowledge of reality through common reflection and action, they discover 
themselves as its permanent re-creators. In this way, the presence of the oppressed 
in the struggle for their liberation will be what it should be: not pseudo- 
participation, but committed involvement. 


Chapter 2 


A careful analysis of the teacher-student relationship at any level, inside or 
outside the school, reveals its fundamentally narrative character. This relationship 
involves a narrating Subject (the teacher) and patient, listening objects (the 
students). The contents, whether values or empirical dimensions of reality, tend in 
the process of being narrated to become lifeless and petrified. Education is 
suffering from narration sickness. 

The teacher talks about reality as if it were motionless, static, 
compartmentalized and predictable. Or else he expounds on a topic completely 
alien to the existential experience of the students. His task is to ‘fill’ the students 
with the contents of his narration - contents which are detached from reality, 
dis-connected from the totality that engendered them and could give them 
significance. Words are emptied of their concreteness and become a hollow, 
alienated and alienating verbosity. 

The outstanding characteristic of this narrative education, then, is the sonority of 
words, not their transforming power. ‘Four times four is sixteen; the capital of Para 
is Belem.’ The student records, memorizes and repeats these phrases without 
perceiving what four times four really means, or realizing the true significance of 
‘capital’ in the affirmation ‘the capital of Para is Belem,’ that is, what Belem 
means for Para and what Para means for Brazil. 

Narration (with the teacher as narrator) leads the students to memorize 
mechanically the narrated content. Worse still, it turns them into ‘containers’, into 
receptacles to be filled by the teacher. The more completely he fills the receptacles, 
the better a teacher he is. The more meekly the receptacles permit them-selves to 
be filled, the better students they are. 

Education thus becomes an act of depositing, in which the students are the 
depositories and the teacher is the “depositor. Instead of communicating, the 
teacher issues communiques and ‘makes deposits’ which the students patiently 
receive, memorize, and repeat. This is the ‘banking’ concept of education, in which 
the scope of action allowed to the students extends only as far as receiving, filing, 
and storing the deposits. They do, it is true, have the opportunity to become 
collectors or cataloguers of the things they store. But in the last analysis, it is men 
themselves who are filed away through the lack of creativity, transformation, and 
knowledge in this (at best) misguided system. For apart from inquiry, apart from 
the praxis, men cannot be truly human. Knowledge emerges only through 
invention and re-invention, through the restless, impatient, continuing, hopeful 
inquiry men pursue in the world, with the world, and with each other. 

In the banking concept of education, knowledge is a gift bestowed by those who 
consider themselves knowledgeable upon those whom they consider to know 



nothing. Projecting an absolute ignorance onto others, a characteristic of the 
ideology of oppression, negates education and knowledge as processes of inquiry. 
The teacher presents himself to his students as their necessary opposite; by 
considering their ignorance absolute, he justifies his own existence. The students, 
alienated like the slave in the Hegelian dialectic, accept their ignorance as 
justifying the teacher’s existence - but, unlike the slave, they never discover that 
they educate the teacher. 

The raison d’etre of libertarian education, on the other hand, lies in its drive 
towards reconciliation. Education must begin with the solution of the teacher- 
student contradiction, by reconciling the poles of the contradiction so that both are 
simultaneously teachers and students. 

This solution is not (nor can it be) found in the banking concept. On the 
contrary, banking education maintains and even stimulates the contradiction 
through the following attitudes and practices, which mirror oppressive society as a 
whole: 

1 . The teacher teaches and the students are taught. 

2. The teacher knows everything and the students know nothing. 

3. The teacher thinks and the students are thought about. 

4. The teacher talks and the students listen - meekly. 

5. The teacher disciplines and the students are disciplined. 

6. The teacher chooses and enforces his choice, and the students comply. 

7. The teacher acts and the students have the illusion of acting through the action 
of the teacher. 

8. The teacher chooses the programme content, and the students (who were not 
consulted) adapt to it. 

9. The teacher confuses the authority of knowledge with his own professional 
authority, which he sets ha opposition to the freedom of the students. 

10. The teacher is the subject of the learning process, while the pupils are mere 
objects. 

It is not surprising that the banking concept of education regards men as 
adaptable, manageable beings. The more students work at storing the deposits 
entrusted to them, the less they develop the critical consciousness which would 
result from their intervention in the world as transformers of that world. The more 
completely they accept the passive role imposed on them, the more they tend 
simply to adapt to the world as it is and to the fragmented view of reality deposited 
in them. 



The capacity of banking education to minimize or annul the students’ creative 
power and to stimulate their credulity serves the interests of the oppressors, who 
care neither to have the world revealed nor to see it transformed. The oppressors 
use their ‘humanitarianism’ to preserve a profitable situation. Thus they react 
almost instinctively against any experiment in education which stimulates the 
critical faculties and is not content with a partial view of reality but is always 
seeking out the ties which link one point to another and one problem to another. 

Indeed, the interests of the oppressors lie in ‘changing the consciousness of the 
oppressed, not the situation which oppresses them’ (Simone de Beauvoir in La 
Pensee de Droite Aujourd’hui) for the more the oppressed can be led to adapt to 
that situation, the more easily they can be dominated. To achieve this end, the 
oppressors use the banking concept of education in conjunction with a paternalistic 
social action apparatus, within which the oppressed receive the euphemistic title of 
‘welfare recipients’. They are treated as individual cases, as marginal men who 
deviate from the general con-figuration of a ‘good, organized, and just* society. 
The op-pressed are regarded as the pathology of the healthy society, which must 
therefore adjust these ‘incompetent and lazy’ folk to its own patterns by changing 
their mentality. These marginals need to be ‘integrated’, ‘incorporated’ into the 
“healthy society that they have ‘forsaken’, 

The truth is, however, that the oppressed are not marginals, are not men living 
‘outside’ society. They have always been inside - inside the structure which made 
them “beings for others’. The solution is not to ‘integrate’ them into the structure 
of oppression, but to transform that structure so that they can become ‘beings for 
themselves’. Such transformation, of course, would undermine the oppressors’ 
purposes; hence their utilization of the banking concept of education to avoid the 
threat of student conscientization. 

The banking approach to adult education, for example, will never propose to 
students that they consider reality critically. It will deal instead with such vital 
questions as whether Roger gave green grass to the goat, and insist upon the 
importance of learning that, on the contrary, Roger gave green grass to the rabbit. 
The ‘humanism’ of the banking approach masks the effort to turn men into 
automatons - the very negation of their ontological vocation to be more fully 
human. 

Those who use the banking approach, knowingly or un-knowingly (for there are 
innumerable well-intentioned bank-clerk teachers who do not realize that they are 
serving only to dehumanize), fail to perceive that the deposits themselves con-tain 
contradictions about reality. But, sooner or later, these contradictions may lead 
formerly passive students to turn against their domestication and the attempt to 
domesticate reality. They may discover through existential experience that their 


present way of life is irreconcilable with their vocation to become fully human. 
They may perceive through their relations with reality that reality is really a 
process, undergoing constant trans-formation. If men are searchers and their 
ontological vocation is humanization, sooner or later they may perceive the 
contra-diction in which banking education seeks to maintain them, and then engage 
themselves in the struggle for their liberation. 

But the humanist, revolutionary educator cannot wait for this possibility to 
materialize. From the outset, his efforts must coincide with those of the students to 
engage in critical thinking and the quest for mutual humanization. His efforts must 
be imbued with a profound trust in men and their creative power. To achieve this, 
he must be a partner of the students in his relations with them. 

The banking concept does not admit to such a partnership -and necessarily so. 
To resolve the teacher-student contradiction, to exchange the role of depositor, 
prescriber, domesticator, for the role of student among students would be to 
undermine the power of oppression and to serve the cause of liberation. 

Implicit in the banking concept is the assumption of a dichotomy between man 
and the world: man is merely in the world, not with the world or with others; man 
is spectator, not re-creator. In this view, man is not a conscious being (corpo 
consciente); he is rather the possessor of a consciousness; an empty ‘mind’ 
passively open to the reception of deposits of reality from the world outside. For 
example, my desk, my books, my coffee cup, all the objects before me - as bits of 
the world which surrounds me - would be ‘inside’ me, exactly as I am inside my 
study right now. This view makes no distinction between being accessible to 
consciousness and entering con-sciousness. The distinction, however, is essential: 
the objects which surround me are simply accessible to my consciousness, not 
located within it. I am aware of them, but they are not inside me. 

It follows logically from the banking notion of consciousness that the educator’s 
role is to regulate the way the world ‘enters into’ the students. His task is to 
organize a process which already happens spontaneously, to ‘fill* the students by 
making deposits of information which he considers constitute true knowledge. And 
since men ‘receive’ the world as passive entities, education should make them 
more passive still, and adapt them to the world. The educated man is the adapted 
man, because he is more ‘fit’ for the world. Translated into practice, this concept is 
well suited to the purposes of the oppressors, whose tranquillity rests on how well 
men fit the world the oppressors have created, and how little they question it. 

The more completely the majority adapt to the purposes which the dominant 
minority prescribe for them (thereby depriving them of the right to their own 
purposes), the more easily the minority can continue to prescribe. The theory and 



practice of banking education serve this end quite efficiently. Verbalistic lessons, 
reading requirements, the methods for evaluating ‘knowledge’, the distance 
between the teacher and the taught, the criteria for promotion: everything in this 
ready-to-wear approach serves to obviate thinking. 

The bank-clerk educator does not realize that there is no true security in his 
hypertrophied role, that one must seek to live with others in solidarity. One cannot 
impose oneself, nor even merely co-exist with one’s students. Solidarity requires 
true communication, and the concept by which such an educator is guided fears 
and proscribes communication. 

Yet only through communication can human life hold meaning. The teacher’s 
thinking is authenticated only by the authenticity of the students’ thinking. The 
teacher cannot think for his students, nor can he impose his thought on them. 
Authentic thinking, thinking that is concerned about reality, does not take place in 
ivory-tower isolation, but only in com-munication. If it is true that thought has 
meaning only when generated by action upon the world, the subordination of 
students to teachers becomes impossible. 

Because banking education begins with a false understanding of men as objects, 
it cannot promote the development of what Fromm, in The Heart of Man, calls 
‘biophily;, but instead produces its opposite: ‘necrophily’. 

While life is characterized by growth in a structured, functional man-ner, the 
necrophilous person loves all that does not grow, all that is mechanical. The 
necrophilous person is driven by the desire to trans-form the organic into the 
inorganic, to approach life mechanically, as if all living persons were things.... 
Memory, rather than experi-ence; having, rather than being, is what counts. The 
necrophilous person can relate to an object - a flower or a person - only if he 
possesses it; hence a threat to his possession is a threat to himself; if he loses 
possession he loses contact with the world. ... He loves control, and in the act of 
controlling he kills life. 

Oppression - overwhelming control - is necrophilic; it is nourished by love of 
death, not life. The banking concept of education, which serves the interests of 
oppression, is also necrophilic. Based on a mechanistic, static, naturalistic, 
spatialized view of consciousness, it transforms students into receiving objects. It 
attempts to control thinking and action, leads men to adjust to the world, and 
inhibits their creative power. 

When their efforts to act responsibly are frustrated, when they find themselves 
unable to use their faculties, men suffer. ‘This suffering due to impotence is rooted 
in the very fact that the human equilibrium has been disturbed’, says Fromm. But 


the inability to act which causes men’s anguish also causes them to reject their 
impotence, by attempting 

... to restore [their] capacity to act. But can [they], and how? One way is to 
submit to and identify with a person or group having power. By this symbolic 
participation in another person’s life, [men have] the illusion of acting, when in 
reality [they] only submit to and become a part of those who act. 

Populist manifestations perhaps best exemplify this type of behaviour by the 
oppressed, who, by identifying with charis-matic leaders, come to feel that they 
themselves are active and effective. The rebellion they express as they emerge in 
the historical process is motivated by that desire to act effectively. The dominant 
elites consider the remedy to be more domination and repression, carried out in the 
name of freedom, order and social peace (the peace of the elites, that is). Thus they 
can condemn - logically, from their point of view - ‘the violence of a strike by 
workers and [can] call upon the state in the same breath to use violence in putting 
down the strike’ (Niebuhr’s Moral Man and Immoral Society). 

Education as the exercise of domination stimulates the credulity of students, 
with the ideological intent (often not perceived by educators) of indoctrinating 
them to adapt to the world of oppression. This accusation is not made in the naive 
hope that the dominant elites will thereby simply abandon the practice. Its 
objective is to call the attention of true humanists to the fact that they cannot use 
the methods of banking education in the pursuit of liberation, as they would only 
negate that pursuit itself. Nor may a revolutionary society inherit these methods 
from an oppressor society. The revolutionary society which practises banking 
education is either misguided or mis-trustful of men. In either event, it is 
threatened by the spectre of reaction. 

Unfortunately, those who espouse the cause of liberation are themselves 
surrounded and influenced by the climate which generates the banking concept, 
and often do not perceive its true significance or its dehumanizing power. 
Paradoxically, then, they utilize this very instrument of alienation in what they 
consider an effort to liberate. Indeed, some ‘revolutionaries’ brand as innocents, 
dreamers, or even reactionaries those who would challenge this educational 
practice. But one does not liberate men by alienating them. Authentic liberation - 
the process of humanization - is not another ‘deposit’ to be made in men. 
Liberation is a praxis: the action and reflection of men upon their world in order to 
transform it. Those truly com-mitted to the cause of liberation can accept neither 
the mechanistic concept of consciousness as an empty vessel to be filled, nor the 
use of banking methods of domination (propaganda, slogans - deposits) in the 
name of liberation. 


The truly committed must reject the banking concept in its entirety, adopting 
instead a concept of men as conscious beings, and consciousness as consciousness 
directed towards the world. They must abandon the educational goal of deposit- 
making and replace it with the posing of the problems of men in their re-lations 
with the world. ‘Problem-posing’ education, responding to the essence of 
consciousness - intentionality - rejects communique and embodies communication. 
It epitomizes the special characteristic of consciousness: being conscious of, not 
only as intent on objects but as turned in upon itself in a Jasperian ‘split’ - 
consciousness as consciousness of conscious-ness. 

Liberating education consists in acts of cognition, not transferrals of 
information. It is a learning situation in which the cognizable object (far from 
being the end of the cognitive act) intermediates the cognitive actors - teacher on 
the one hand and students on the other. Accordingly, the practice of problem- 
posing education first of all demands a resolution of the teacher-student 
contradiction. Dialogical relations - indispensable to the capacity of cognitive 
actors to cooperate in perceiving the same cognizable object - are otherwise 
impossible. 

Indeed, problem-posing education, breaking the vertical patterns characteristic 
of banking education, can fulfil its function of being the practice of freedom only if 
it can over-come the above contradiction. Through dialogue, the teacher-of-the- 
students and the students-of-the-teacher cease to exist and a new term emerges: 
teacher-student with students-teachers. The teacher is no longer merely the-one- 
who-teaches, but one who is himself taught in dialogue with the students, who in 
their turn while being taught also teach. They become jointly responsible for a 
process in which all grow. In this process, arguments based on ‘authority’ are no 
longer valid; in order to function, authority must be on the side of freedom, not 
against it. Here, no one teaches another, nor is anyone self-taught. Men teach each 
other, mediated by the world, by the cognizable objects which in banking 
education are ‘owned’ by the teacher. 

The banking concept (with its tendency to dichotomize everything) distinguishes 
two stages in the action of the educator. During the first, he cognizes a cognizable 
object while he pre-pares his lessons in his study or his laboratory; during the 
second, he expounds to his students on that object. The students are not called 
upon to know, but to memorize the contents narrated by the teacher. Nor do the 
students practise any act of cognition, since the object towards which that act 
should be directed is the property of the teacher rather than a medium evoking the 
critical reflection of both teacher and students. Hence in the name of the 
‘preservation of culture and knowledge’ we have a system which achieves neither 
true knowledge nor true culture. 



The problem-posing method does not dichotomi z e the activity of the teacher- 
student: he is not ‘cognitive’ at one point and ‘narrative’ at another. He is always 
‘cognitive’, whether preparing a project or engaging in dialogue with the students. 
He does not regard cognizable objects as his private property, but as the object of 
reflection by himself and the students. In this way, the problem-posing educator 
constantly re-forms his reflections in the reflection of the students. The students - 
no longer docile listeners - are now critical co-investigators in dialogue with the 
teacher. The teacher presents the material to the students for their consideration, 
and re-examines his earlier considerations as the students express their own. The 
role of the problem-posing educator is to create, together with the students, the 
conditions under which knowledge at the level of the doxa is superseded by true 
knowledge, at the level of the logos. 

Whereas banking education anaesthetizes and inhibits creative power, problem- 
posing education involves a constant unveiling of reality. The former attempts to 
maintain the submersion of consciousness; the latter strives for the emergence of 
con-sciousness and critical intervention in reality. 

Students, as they are increasingly faced with problems re-lating to themselves in 
the world and with the world, will feel increasingly challenged and obliged to 
respond to that challenge. Because they apprehend the challenge as interrelated to 
other problems within a total context, not as a theoretical question, the resulting 
comprehension tends to be increasingly critical and thus constantly less alienated. 
Their response to the challenge evokes new challenges, followed by new 
understandings; and gradually the students come to regard themselves as 
committed. 

Education as the practice of freedom - as opposed to educa-tion as the practice 
of domination - denies that man is abstract, isolated, independent, and unattached 
to the world; it also denies that the world exists as a reality apart from men. 
Authen-tic reflection considers neither abstract man nor the world without men, 
but men in their relations with the world. In these relations consciousness and 
world are simultaneous: conscious-ness neither precedes the world nor follows it. 
‘La conscience et le monde sont dormes d’wi meme coup; exterieur par essence a 
la conscience, le monde est, par essence relatif a elle writes Sartre. In one of our 
culture circles in Chile, the group was discussing (based on a codification) the 
anthropological con-cept of culture. In the midst of the discussion, a peasant who 
by banking standards was completely ignorant said: ‘Now I see that without man 
there is no world. When the educator responded: ‘Let’s say, for the sake of 
argument, that all the men on earth were to die, but that the earth itself remained, 
together with trees, birds, animals, rivers, seas, the stars ... wouldn’t all this be a 



world?’ ‘Oh no,’ the peasant replied emphatically. ‘There would be no one to say: 
“This is a world”.’ 

The peasant wished to express the idea that there would be lacking the 
consciousness of the world which necessarily implies the world of consciousness.’ 
I’ cannot exist without a’ not I’. In turn, the ‘not I’ depends on that existence. The 
world which brings consciousness into existence becomes the world of that 
consciousness. Hence the previously cited affirmation of Sartre: ‘La conscience et 
le monde sont dormes d’un meme coup. ’ 

As men, simultaneously reflecting on themselves and on the world, increase the 
scope of their perception, they begin to direct their observations towards 
previously inconspicuous phenomena. Husserl writes: 

In perception properly so-called, as an explicit awareness [Gewahren] , I am 
turned towards the object, to the paper, for instance. I appre-hend it as being this 
here and now. The apprehension is a singling out, every object having a 
background in experience. Around and about the paper He books, pencils, ink-well 
and so forth, and these in a certain sense are also ‘perceived’, perceptually there, in 
the ‘field of intuition’; but whilst I was turned towards the paper there was no 
turning in their direction, nor any apprehending of them, not even in a secondary 
sense. They appeared and yet were not singled out, were not posited on their own 
account. Every perception of a thing has such a zone of background intuitions or 
background awareness, if ‘intuiting’ already includes the state of being turned 
towards, and this also is a ‘conscious experience’, or more briefly a ‘consciousness 
of all indeed that in point of fact lies in the co-perceived objective background. 

That which had existed objectively but had not been perceived in its deeper 
implications (if indeed it was perceived at all) begins to ‘Standout’, assuming the 
character of a problem and therefore of challenge. Thus, men begin to single out 
elements from their ‘background awareness’s’ and to reflect upon them. These 
elements are now objects of men’s consideration, and, as such, objects of their 
action and cognition. 

In problem-posing education, men develop their power to perceive critically the 
way they exist in the world with which and in which they find themselves; they 
come to see the world not as a static reality, but as a reality in process, in 
transformation. Although the dialectical relations of men with the world exist 
independently of how these relations are perceived (or whether or not they are 
perceived at all), it is also true that the form of action men adopt is to a large extent 
a function of how they perceive themselves in the world. Hence, the teacher- 
student and the students-teachers reflect simultaneously on themselves and the 



world without dichotomizing this reflection from action, and thus establish an 
authentic form of thought and action. 

Once again, the two educational concepts and practices under analysis come into 
conflict. Banking education (for obvious reasons) attempts, by mythicizing reality, 
to conceal certain facts which explain the way men exist in the world; problem- 
posing education sets itself the task of demythologizing. Banking education resists 
dialogue; problem-posing education regards dialogue as indispensable to the act of 
cog-nition which unveils reality. Banking education treats students as objects of 
assistance; problem-posing education makes them critical thinkers. Banking 
education inhibits creativity and domesticates (although it cannot completely 
destroy) the intentional ity of consciousness by isolating consciousness from the 
world, thereby denying men their ontological and historical vocation of becoming 
more fully human. Problem-posing education bases itself on creativity and 
stimulates true reflection and action upon reality, thereby responding to the 
vocation of men as beings who are authentic only when engaged in inquiry and 
creative transformation. In sum: banking theory and practice, as immobilizing and 
fixating forces, fail to acknowledge men as historical beings; problem-posing 
theory and practice take man’s historicity as their starting point. 

Problem-posing education affirms men as beings in the process of becoming - as 
unfinished, uncompleted beings in and with a likewise unfinished reality. Indeed, 
in contrast to other animals who are unfinished, but not historical, men know 
them-selves to be unfinished; they are aware of their incompleteness. In this 
incompleteness and this awareness He the very roots of education as an exclusively 
human manifestation. The un-finished character of men and the transformational 
character of reality necessitate that education be an ongoing activity. 

Education is thus constantly remade in the praxis. In order to be, it must become. 
Its ‘duration’ (in the Bergsonian meaning of the word) is found in the interplay of 
the opposites per-manence and change. The banking method emphasizes 
per-manence and becomes reactionary; problem-posing education - which accepts 
neither a ‘well-behaved’ present nor a pre-determined future - roots itself in the 
dynamic present and becomes revolutionary. 

Problem-posing education is revolutionary futurity. Hence it is prophetic (and, 
as such, hopeful), and so corresponds to the historical nature of man. Thus, it 
affirms men as beings who transcend themselves, who move forward and look 
ahead, for whom immobility represents a fatal threat, for whom looking at the past 
must only be a means of understanding more clearly what and who they are so that 
they can more wisely build the future. Hence, it identifies with the movement 
which engages men as beings aware of their incompleteness - an historical 
movement which has its point of departure, its subjects and its objective. 



The point of departure of the movement lies in men them-selves. But since men 
do not exist apart from the world, apart from reality, the movement must begin 
with the men-world relationship. Accordingly, the point of departure must always 
be with men in the ‘here and now’, which constitutes the situation within which 
they are submerged, from which they emerge, and in which they intervene. Only 
by starting from this situation - which determines their perception of it - can they 
begin to move. To do this authentically they must perceive their state not as fated 
and unalterable, but merely as limiting - and therefore challenging. 

Whereas the banking method directly or indirectly reinforces men’s fatalistic 
perception of their situation, the problem-posing method presents this very 
situation to them as a problem. As the situation becomes the object of their 
cognition, the naive or magical perception which produced their fatalism gives way 
to perception which is able to perceive itself even as it perceives reality, and can 
thus be critically objective about that reality. 

A deepened consciousness of their situation leads men to apprehend that 
situation as an historical reality susceptible of transformation. Resignation gives 
way to the drive for trans-formation and inquiry, over which men feel themselves 
in control. If men, as historical beings necessarily engaged with other men in a 
movement of inquiry, did not control that movement, it would be (and is) a 
violation of men’s humanity. Any situation in which some men prevent others 
from engaging in the process of inquiry is one of violence. The means used are not 
important; to alienate men from their own decision-making is to change them into 
objects. 

This movement of inquiry must be directed towards humanization - man’s 
historical vocation. The pursuit of full humanity, however, cannot be carried out in 
isolation or individualism, but only in fellowship and solidarity; therefore it cannot 
unfold in the antagonistic relations between oppressors and oppressed. No one can 
be authentically human while he prevents others from being so. The attempt to be 
more human, individualistically, leads to having more, egotistically: a form of 
dehumanization. Not that it is not fundamental to have in order to be human. 
Precisely because it is necessary, some men’s having must not be allowed to 
constitute an obstacle to others’ having, to consolidate the power of the former to 
crush the latter. 

Problem-posing’ education, as a humanist and liberating praxis, posits as 
fundamental that men subjected to domination must fight for their emancipation. 
To that end, it enables teachers and students to become subjects of the educational 
process by overcoming authoritarianism and an alienating intellectualism; it also 
enables men to overcome their false perception of reality. The world - no longer 



something to be described with deceptive words - becomes the object of that 
transforming action by men which results in their humanization. 

Problem-posing education does not and cannot serve the interests of the 
oppressor. No oppressive order could permit the oppressed to begin to question: 
Why? While only a revolu-tionary society can carry out this education in 
systematic terms, the revolutionary leaders need not take full power before they 
can employ the method. In the revolutionary process, the leaders cannot utilize the 
banking method as an interim measure, justified on grounds of expediency, with 
the intention of later behaving in a genuinely revolutionary fashion. They must be 
revolutionary - that is to say, analogical - from the outset. 


Chapter 3 

As we attempt to analyse dialogue as a human phenomenon, we discover 
something which is the essence of dialogue itself: the word. But the word is more 
than just an instrument which makes dialogue possible; accordingly, we must seek 
its con-stituent elements. Within the word we find two dimensions, reflection and 
action, in such radical interaction that if one is sacrificed - even in part - the other 
immediately suffers. There is no true word that is not at the same time a praxis. 
Thus, to speak a true word is to transform the world. 

An unauthentic word, one which is unable to transform reality, results when 
dichotomy is imposed upon its constituent elements. When a word is deprived of 
its dimension of action, reflection automatically suffers as well; and the word is 
changed into idle chatter, into verbalism, into an alienated and alienating ‘blah’. It 
becomes an empty word, one which cannot denounce the world, for denunciation 
is impossible without a commit-ment to transform, and there is no transformation 
without action. 

On the other hand, if action is emphasized exclusively, to the detriment of 
reflection, the word is converted into activism. The latter - action for action’s sake 
- negates the true praxis and makes dialogue impossible. Either dichotomy, by 
creating unauthentic forms of existence, also creates unauthentic forms of thought, 
which reinforce the original dichotomy. 

Human existence cannot be silent, nor can it be nourished by false words, but 
only by true words, with which men transform the world. To exist, humanly, is to 
name the world, to change it. Once named, the world in its turn reappears to the 
namer as a problem and requires of them a new naming. Men are not built in 
silence, but in word, in work, in action-reflection. 

But while to say the true word - which is work, which is praxis - is to transform 
the world, saying that word is not the privilege of some few men, but the right of 


every man. Con-sequently, no one can say a true word alone - nor can he say it for 
another, in a prescriptive Set which robs others of their words. 

Dialogue is the encounter between men, mediated by the world, in order to name 
the world. Hence, dialogue cannot occur between those who want to name the 
world and those who do not want this naming - between those who deny other men 
the right to speak their word and those whose right to speak has been denied them. 
Those who have been denied their primordial right to speak their word must first 
reclaim this right and prevent the continuation of this dehumanizing aggression. 

If it is in speaking their word that men transform the world by naming it, 
dialogue imposes itself as the way in which men achieve significance as men. 
Dialogue is thus an existential necessity. And since dialogue is the encounter in 
which the united reflection and action of the dialoguers are addressed to the world 
which is to be transformed and humanized, this dialogue cannot be reduced to the 
act of one person’s ‘depositing’ ideas in another, nor can it become a simple 
exchange of ideas to be ‘consumed’ by the participants in the discussion. Nor yet is 
it a hostile, polemical argument between men who are committed neither to the 
naming of the world, nor to the search for truth, but rather to the imposition of their 
own truth. Because dialogue is an encounter among men who name the world, it 
must not be a situation where some men name on behalf of others. It is an act of 
creation; it must not serve as a crafty instrument for the domination of one man by 
another. The domination implicit in dialogue is that of the world by those who 
enter into dialogue, it is the conquest of the world for the liberation of men. 

Dialogue cannot exist, however, in the absence of a profound love for the world 
and for men. The naming of the world, which is an act of creation and re-creation, 
is not possible if it is not infused with love. Love is at the same time the foundation 
of dialogue and dialogue itself. It is thus necessarily the task of responsible 
Subjects and cannot exist in a relation of domination. Domination reveals the 
pathology of love: sadism in the dominator and masochism in the dominated. 
Because love is an act of courage, not of fear, love is commitment to other men. 
No matter where the oppressed are found, the act of love is commitment to their 
cause - the cause of liberation. And this commitment, because it is loving, is 
dialogical. As an act of bravery, love cannot be sentimental; as an act of freedom, 
it must not serve as a pretext for manipulation. It must generate other acts of 
freedom; otherwise, it is not love. Only by abolish-ing the situation of oppression 
is it possible to restore the love which that situation made impossible. If I do not 
love the world - if I do not love life - if I do not love men - I cannot enter into 
dialogue. 

On the other hand, dialogue cannot exist without humility. The naming of the 
world, through which men constantly re-create that world, cannot be an act of 



arrogance. Dialogue, as the encounter of men addressed to the common task of 
learning and acting, is broken if the parties (or one of them) lack humility. How 
can I enter into a dialogue if I always project ignorance onto others and never 
perceive my own? How can I enter into dialogue if I regard myself as a case apart 
from other men - mere ‘its’ in whom I cannot recognize other ‘Is’? How can I enter 
into dialogue if I consider myself a member of the in-group of pure men, the 
owners of truth and knowledge, for whom all non-members are ‘these people’ or 
‘the great un- washed’? If I start from the premise that naming the world is the task 
of an elite and that the presence of the people in history is a sign of deterioration 
which is to be avoided, how can I hold a dialogue? Or if I am closed to - and even 
offended by - the contribution of others; if I am tormented and weakened by the 
possibility of being displaced, how can there be dialogue? Self-sufficiency is 
incompatible with dialogue. Men who lack humility (or have lost it) cannot come 
to the people, cannot be their partners in naming the world. Someone who cannot 
ack-nowledge himself to be as mortal as everyone else still has a long way to go 
before he can reach the point of encounter. At the point of encounter there are 
neither utter ignoramuses nor perfect sages; there are only men who are attempting, 
together, to learn more than they now know. 

Dialogue further requires an intense faith in man, faith in his power to make and 
remake, to create and re-create, faith in his vocation to be more fully human 
(which is not the privilege of an elite, but the birthright of all men). Faith in man is 
an a priori requirement for dialogue; the ‘dialogical man’ believes in other” men 
even before he meets them face to face. His faith, however, is not naive. The’ 
dialogical man’ is critical and knows that although it is within the power of men to 
create and trans-form in a concrete situation of alienation men may be impaired in 
the use of that power. Far from destroying his faith in man, however, this 
possibility strikes him as a challenge to which he must respond. He is convinced 
that the power to create and transform, even when thwarted in concrete situations, 
tends to be reborn. And that rebirth can occur - not gratuitously, but in and through 
the struggle for liberation -in slave labour being superseded by emancipated labour 
which gives zest to life. Without this faith in man, dialogue is a farce which 
inevitably degenerates into paternalistic manipulation. 

Founding itself upon love, humility and faith, dialogue be-comes a horizontal 
relationship of which mutual trust between the participants is the logical 
consequence. It would be a contradiction in terms if dialogue - loving, humble and 
full of faith - did not produce a climate of mutual trust, which leads the people 
involved into ever closer partnership in the naming of the world. Conversely, such 
trust is obviously absent in the anti-dialogics of the banking method of education. 
Whereas faith in man is an a priori requirement for dialogue, trust is established by 



dialogue. Should it fail, it will be seen that the preconditions were lacking. False 
love, false humility and feeble faith in man cannot create trust. Trust is contingent 
on the evidence which one party provides the others of his true, concrete 
intentions; it cannot exist if that party’s words do not coincide with his actions. To 
say one thing and do another - to take one’s own word lightly - cannot inspire trust. 
To glorify democracy and to silence the people is a farce; to discourse on 
humanism and to negate man is a lie. 

Nor yet can dialogue exist without hope. Hope is rooted in men’s 
incompleteness, from which they move out in constant search - a search which can 
be carried out only in communion with other men. Hopelessness is a form of 
silence, of denying the world and fleeing from it. The dehumani z ation resulting 
from an unjust order is not a cause for despair but for hope, leading to the incessant 
pursuit of the humanity which is denied by injustice. Hope, however, does not 
consist in folding one’s arms and waiting. As long as I fight, I am moved by hope; 
and if I fight with hope, then I can wait. As the encounter of men seeking to be 
more fully human, dialogue cannot be carried on in a climate of hopelessness. If 
the participants expect nothing to come of their efforts, their encounter will be 
empty and sterile, bureaucratic and tedious. 

Finally, true dialogue cannot exist unless it involves critical thinking - thinking 
which discerns an indivisible solidarity between the world and men admitting of no 
dichotomy between them - thinking which perceives reality as process and 
trans-formation, rather than as a static entity - thinking which does not separate 
itself from action, but constantly immerses itself in temporality without fear of the 
risks involved. Critical thinking contrasts with naive thinking, which sees 
‘historical time as a weight, a stratification of the acquisitions and experiences of 
the past’, from which the present should emerge normalized and ‘well-behaved’. 
For the naive thinker, the important thing is accommodation to this normalized 
‘today’. For the critic, the important thing is the continuing transformation of 
reality, for the sake of the continuing humanization of men. In the words of Pierre 
Furter: 

The goal will no longer be to eliminate the risks of temporality by clutching to 
guaranteed space, but rather to temporalize space.... The universe is revealed to me 
not as space, imposing a massive presence to which I can only adapt, but as a 
scope, a domain which takes shape as I act upon it. 

For naive thinking, the goal is precisely to hold fast to this guaranteed space and 
adjust to it. By thus denying temporality, it denies itself as well. 

Only dialogue, which requires critical thinking, is also capable of generating 
critical thinking. Without dialogue there is no communication, and without 



communication there can be no true education. Education which is able to resolve 
the con-tradiction between teacher and student takes place in a situation in which 
both address their act of cognition to the object by which they are mediated. Thus, 
the dialogical character of education as the practice of freedom does not begin 
when the teacher-student meets the students-teachers in a pedagogical situation, 
but rather when the former first asks him what his dialogue with the latter will be 
about. And preoccupation with the content of dialogue is really preoccupation with 
the programme content of education. 

For the anti-dialogical banking educator, the question of content simply 
concerns the programme about which he will discourse to his students; and he 
answers his own question, by organizing his own programme. For the dialogical, 
problem-posing teacher-student, the programme content of education is neither a 
gift nor an imposition - bits of information to be deposited in the students - but 
rather the organized, systematized, and developed ‘representation’ to individuals of 
the things about which they want to know more. 

Authentic education is not carried on by A for B or by A about B, but rather by 
A with B, mediated by the world - a world which impresses and challenges both 
parties, giving rise to views or opinions about it. These views, impregnated with 
anxieties, doubts, hopes, or hopelessness, imply significant themes on the basis of 
which the programme content of education can be built. In its desire to create an 
ideal model of the ‘good man’, a naively conceived humanism often overlooks the 
concrete, existential, present situation of real men. Authentic humanism, in Pierre 
Furter’s words, ‘consists in permitting the emergence of the awareness of our full 
humanity, as a condition and as an obligation, as a situation and as a project’. We 
simply cannot go to the workers - urban or peasant - in the banking style, to give 
them ‘knowledge’ or to impose upon them the model of the ‘good man’ contained 
in a programme whose content we have ourselves organized. Many political and 
edu-cational plans have failed because their authors designed them according to 
their own personal views of reality, never once taking into account (except as mere 
objects of their action) the men-in-a-situation towards whom their programme was 
ostensibly directed. 

For the truly humanist educator and the authentic revolu-tionary, the object of 
action is the reality to be transformed by them together with other men - not other 
men themselves. The oppressors are the ones who act upon men to indoctrinate 
them and adjust them to a reality, which must remain untouched. Unfortunately, 
however, in their desire to obtain the support of the people for revolutionary action, 
revolutionary leaders often fall for the banking line of planning a programme 
content from the top down. They approach the peasant or urban masses with 
projects which may correspond to their own view of the world, but not to that of 



the people. They forget that their fundamental objective is to fight alongside the 
people for the recovery of the people’s stolen humanity, not to ‘win the people 
over’ to their side. Such a phrase does not belong in the vocabulary of 
revolutionary leaders, but in that of the oppressor. The revolutionary’s role is to 
liberate, and be liberated, with the people - not to win them over. 

In their political activity, the dominant elites utilize the banking concept to 
encourage passivity in the oppressed, corresponding with the latter’s ‘submerged’ 
state of consciousness and take advantage of that passivity to ‘fill’ that 
consciousness with slogans which create even more fear of freedom. This practice 
is incompatible with a truly liberating course of action which, by presenting the 
oppressors’ slogans as a problem, helps the oppressed to ‘eject’ those slogans from 
within them-selves. After all, the task of the humanists is surely not that of pitting 
their slogans against the slogans of the oppressors, with the oppressed as the 
testing ground, ‘housing’ the slogans of first one group and then the other. On the 
contrary, the task of the humanists is to see that the oppressed become aware of the 
fact that as dual beings, ‘housing’ the oppressors within themselves, they cannot be 
truly human. 

This task implies that revolutionary leaders do not go to the people in order to 
bring them a message of ^salvation’, but in order to come to know through 
dialogue with them both their objective situation and their awareness of that 
situation - the various levels of perception of themselves and of the world in which 
and with which they exist. One cannot expect positive results from an educational 
or political action programme which fails to respect the particular view of the 
world held by the people. Such a programme constitutes cultural invasion, good 
intentions notwithstanding. 

The starting point for organizing the programme content of education or 
political action must be the present, existential, concrete situation, reflecting the 
aspirations of the people. Utilizing certain basic contradictions, we must pose this 
exis-tential, concrete, present situation to the people as a problem which challenges 
them and requires a response - not just at the intellectual level, but at the level of 
action. 

We must never merely discourse on the present situation, must never provide the 
people with programmes which have little or nothing to do with their own 
preoccupations, doubts, hopes, and fears - programmes which at times in fact 
increase the fears of the oppressed consciousness. It is not our role to speak to the 
people about our own view of the world, nor to attempt to impose that view on 
them, but rather to dialogue with the people about their view and ours. We must 
realize that their view of the world, manifested variously in their action, reflects 
their situation in the world. Educational and political action which is not critically 



aware of this situation runs the risk either of ‘banking’ or of preaching in the 
desert. Often, educators and politicians speak and are not understood because their 
language is not attuned to the concrete situation of the men they address. 
Accordingly, their talk is just alienated and alienating rhetoric. The language of the 
educator or the politician (and it seems more and more clear that the latter must 
also become an educator, in the broadest sense of the word), like the language of 
the people, cannot exist without thought; and neither language nor thought can 
exist without a structure to which they refer. In order to communicate effectively, 
educator and politician must understand the structural conditions in which the 
thought and language of the people are dialectically framed. 

It is to the reality which mediates men, and to the perception of that reality held 
by educators and people, that we must go to find the programme content of 
education. The investigation of what I have termed the people’s ‘thematic 
universe’- the complex of their ‘generative themes’ -inaugurates the dialogue of 
education as the practice of freedom. The methodology of that investigation must 
likewise be dialogical, providing the opportunity both to discover generative 
themes and to stimulate people’s awareness in regard to these themes. Consistent 
with the liberating purpose of dialogical education, the object of the investigation 
is not men (as if men were anatomical fragments), but rather the thought-language, 
men use to refer to reality, the levels at which they perceive that reality, and their 
view of the world, which is the source of their generative themes. 

Before describing a ‘generative theme’ more precisely (which will also clarify 
what is meant by a ‘minimum thematic universe’) it seems to me essential to 
present a few preliminary reflections. The concept of a generative theme is neither 
an arbitrary invention nor a working hypothesis that has to be proved. If it were a 
hypothesis to be proved, the initial investi-gation would seek not to ascertain the 
nature of the theme, but rather the very existence or non-existence of themes 
them-selves. In that event, before attempting to understand the theme in its 
richness, its significance, its plurality, its trans-formations (see my Cultural Action 
for Freedom), and its historical composition, we would first have to verify whether 
or not it is an objective fact; only then could we proceed to apprehend it. Although 
an attitude of critical doubt is legitim-ate, it does appear possible to verify the 
reality of the generative theme - not only through one’s own existential experience, 
but also through critical consideration of the men-world relation-ship and the 
relationships between men implicit in the former. This point deserves more 
attention. One may well remember - trite as it seems - that, of the uncompleted 
beings, man is the only one to treat not only his actions but his very self as the 
object of his reflection; this capacity distinguishes him from the animals, which are 
unable to separate themselves from their activity and thus are unable to reflect 


upon it. In this appar-ently superficial distinction lie the boundaries which delimit 
the action of each in his life space. Because the animals’ activity is an extension of 
themselves, the results- of that activity are also inseparable from themselves: 
animals can neither set objectives not infuse their transformation of nature with 
any significance beyond itself. Moreover, the ‘decision’ to perform this activity 
belongs not to them but to their species. Animals are, accord-ingly, fundamentally 
“beings in themselves’. 

Unable to decide for themselves, unable to objectify either themselves or their 
activity, lacking objectives which they them-selves have set, living ‘submerged’ in 
a world to which they can give no meaning, lacking a ‘tomorrow’ and a ‘today’ 
because they exist in an overwhelming present, animals are ahistorical. Their 
ahistorical life does not occur in the ‘world’, taken in its strict meaning; for the 
animal, the world does not constitute a ‘not-I’ which could set him apart as an ‘I’. 
The human world, which is historical, serves as a mere prop for the ‘being in itself. 
Animals are not challenged by the configura-tion which confronts them; they are 
merely stimulated. Their life is not one of risk-taking, for they are not aware of 
taking risks. Risks are not challenges perceived upon reflection, but merely ‘noted’ 
by the signs which indicate them; they accordingly do not require decision-making 
responses. 

Consequently, animals cannot commit themselves. Their historical condition 
does not permit them to ‘take on’ life. Because they do not ‘take it on’, they cannot 
construct it; and if they do not construct it, they cannot transform its 
configura-tion. Nor can they know themselves to be destroyed by life, ‘for they 
cannot expand their ‘prop’ world into a meaningful, symbolic world which 
includes culture and history. As a result, animals do not ‘animalize’ their 
configuration in order to animalize themselves - nor do they ‘de-animalize’ 
themselves. Even in the forest, they remain ‘beings-in-themselves’, as animal-like 
there as in the zoo. 

In contrast, men are aware of their activity and the world in which they are 
situated. They act in function of the objectives which they propose, have the seat of 
their decisions located in themselves and in their relations with the world and with 
others, and infuse the world with their creative presence by means of the 
transformation they effect upon it. Unlike animals, they not only live but exist; and 
their existence is historical. Animals live out their lives on an a temporal, flat, 
uniform ‘prop’; men exist in a world which they are constantly recreating and 
transforming. For animals, ‘here’ is only a habitat with which they enter into 
contact; for men, “here” signifies not merely a physical space, but also an historical 
space. 



Strictly speaking, ‘here’, ‘now’, ‘there’, ‘tomorrow’, and ‘yesterday’ do not 
exist for the animal, whose life, lacking self-consciousness, is totally determined. 
Animals cannot surmount the limits imposed by the ‘here’, the ‘now’, or the 
‘there’. 

Men, however, because they are aware of themselves and thus of the world - 
because they are conscious beings - exist in a dialectical relationship between the 
determination of limits and their own freedom. As they separate themselves from 
the world, which they objectify, as they separate themselves from their own 
activity, as they locate the seat of their decisions in themselves and in their 
relations with the world and others, men overcome the situations which limit them: 
the ‘limit-situations’. Once perceived by men as fetters, as obstacles to their 
liberation, these situations stand out in relief from the background, revealing their 
true nature as concrete historical dimensions of a given reality. Men respond to the 
challenge with actions which Vieira Pinto calls ‘limit-acts’: those directed at 
negating and overcoming, rather than passively accepting, the ‘given’. 

Thus, it is not the limit-situations in and of themselves which create a climate of 
hopelessness, but rather how they are perceived by men at a given historical 
moment: whether they appear as fetters or as insurmountable barriers. As critical 
perception is embodied in action, a climate of hope and con-fidence develops 
which leads men to attempt to overcome the limit-situations. This objective can be 
achieved only through action upon the concrete, historical reality in which limit- 
situations historically are found. As reality is transformed and these situations are 
superseded, new ones will appear, which in turn will evoke new limit-acts. 

The prop world of animals contains no limit-situations, due to its ahistorical 
character. Similarly, animals lack the ability to exercise limit-acts, which require a 
decisive attitude towards the world: separation from and objectification of the 
world in order to transform it. Organically bound to their prop, animals do not 
distinguish between themselves and the world. Accordingly, animals are not 
limited by limit-situations - which are historical - but rather by the entire prop. And 
the appropriate rote for animals is not to relate to their prop (in that event, the prop 
would be a world), but to adapt to it. Thus, when animals ‘produce’ a nest, a hive, 
or a burrow, they are not creating products which result from ‘limit-acts’, that is, 
transforming responses. Their productive activity is subordinated to the satisfaction 
of a physical necessity which is simply stimulating, rather than challenging. ‘An 
animal’s product belongs immedi-ately to its physical body, whilst man freely 
confronts his product,’ says Marx in Dirk Struik’s edition of his 1844 manuscripts. 

Only products which result from the activity of a being but do not belong to its 
physical body (though these products may bear its seal), can give a dimension of 
meaning to the context, which thus becomes a world. A being capable of such 



production (who thereby is necessarily aware of himself, is a ‘ being for himself) 
could no longer be if he were not in the process of being in the world with which 
he relates; just as the world would no longer exist if this being did not exist. 

The difference between animals - who (because their activity does not constitute 
limit-acts) cannot create products detached from themselves - and men - who 
through their action upon the world create the realm of culture and history - is that 
only the latter are beings of the praxis. Only men are praxis - the praxis which, as 
the reflection and action which truly transform reality’ is the source of knowledge 
and creation. Animal activity, which occurs without a praxis, is not creative; man’s 
transforming activity is. 

It is as transforming and creative beings that men, in their permanent relations 
with reality, produce not only material goods - tangible objects - but also social 
institutions, ideas, and concepts. Through their continuing praxis, men 
simultan-eously create history and become historical-social beings. Because - in 
contrast to animals - men can tri-dimensionalize time into the past, the present, and 
the future, their history, in function of their own creations, develops as a constant 
process of transformation within which epochal units materialize. These epochal 
units are not closed periods of time, static com-partments within which men are 
confined. Were this the case, a fundamental condition of history - its continuity - 
would dis-appear. On the, contrary, epochal units interrelate in the dyn-amics of 
historical continuity. 

An epoch is characterized by a complex of ideas, concepts, hopes, doubts, 
values, and challenges in dialectical interaction with their opposites, striving 
towards fulfilment. The concrete representation of many of these ideas, values, 
concepts and hopes, as well as the obstacles which impede man’s full 
humanization, constitute the themes of that epoch. These themes imply others 
which are opposing or even antithetical; they also indi-cate tasks to be carried out 
and fulfilled. Thus, historical themes are never isolated, independent, disconnected, 
or static; they are always interacting dialectically with their opposites. 

Nor can these themes be found anywhere except in the men-world relationship. 
The complex of interacting themes of an epoch constitutes its ‘thematic universe’. 

Confronted by this ‘universe of themes’ in dialectical contradiction, men take 
equally contradictory positions: some work to maintain the structures, others to 
change them. As antagonism deepens between themes which are the expression pf 
reality, there is a tendency for the themes and for reality itself to be mythicized, 
establishing a climate of irrationality and sectarianism. This climate threatens to 
drain the themes of their deeper significance and to deprive them of their 
characteristically dynamic aspect. In such a situation, myth-creating irration-ality 



itself becomes a fundamental theme. Its opposing theme, the critical and dynamic 
view of the world, strives to unveil reality, unmask its mythicization, and achieve a 
full realization of the human task: the permanent transformation of reality in favour 
of the liberation of men. 

In the last analysis, the themes both contain and are contained in limit-situations; 
the tasks they imply require limit-acts. When the themes are concealed by the 
limit- situations and thus are not clearly perceived, the corresponding tasks - mens’ 
responses in the form of historical action - can be neither authentically nor 
critically fulfilled. In this situation, men are unable to transcend the limit- situations 
to discover that there lies beyond these situations - and in contradiction to them -an 
untested feasibility. 

In brief, limit- situations imply the existence both of persons who are directly or 
indirectly served by these situations, and of those who are negated and curbed by 
them. Once the latter come to perceive these situations as the frontier between 
being and being more human, rather than between being and nothing-ness, they 
begin to direct their increasingly critical actions towards achieving the untested 
feasibility implicit in that perception. On the other hand, those who are served by 
the present limit-situation regard the untested feasibility as a threatening limit- 
situation which must not be allowed to materialize, and act to maintain the status 
quo. Consequently, liberating actions in an historical milieu must correspond not 
only to the generative themes but to the way in which these themes are perceived. 
This requirement in turn implies another: the investigation of meaningful thematic. 

Generative themes can be located in concentric circles, moving from the general 
to the particular. The broadest epochal unit, which includes a diversified range of 
units and sub-units -continental, regional, national, and so forth - contains themes 
of a universal character. I consider the fundamental theme of our epoch to be that 
of domination. This implies that the ob-jective to be achieved is liberation, its 
opposite theme. It is that tormenting ‘themination’ which gives our epoch the 
anthrop-ological character mentioned earlier. In order to achieve humanization, 
which presupposes the elimination of dehuman-izing oppression, it is absolutely 
necessary to surmount the limit- situations in which men are reduced to things. 

Within the smaller circles, we find themes and limit-situations characteristic of 
societies (on the same continent or on different continents) which, through these 
themes and limit-situations, share historical similarities. For example, 
underdevelopment, which cannot be understood apart from the relationship of 
dependency, represents a limit-situation characteristic of societies of the Third 
World. .The task implied by this limit- situation is to overcome the contradictory 
relationship between these ‘object’ societies and the metropolitan societies; this 
task constitutes the untested feasibility for the Third World. 



Within the broader epochal unit, any specific society con-tains, in addition to the 
universal, continental, or historically similar themes, its own particular themes-, its 
own limit- situa-tions. Within yet smaller circles, thematic diversifications can be 
found within the same society, divided into areas and sub-areas, all of which are 
related to the societal whole. These constitute epochal sub-units. For example, 
within the same national unit one can find the contradiction of the ‘coexistence of 
the non-contemporaneous’. 

Within these sub-units, national themes may or may not be perceived in their 
true significance. They may simply be felt - sometimes not even that. But the non- 
existence of themes within the sub-units is absolutely impossible. The fact that 
individuals in a certain area do not perceive a generative theme, or perceive it in a 
distorted way, may only reveal a limit-situation of oppression in which men are 
still submerged. 

In general, a dominated consciousness which has not yet perceived a limit- 
situation in its totality apprehends only its epiphenomena and transfers to the latter 
the inhibiting force which is the property of the limit-situation: This fact is of great 
importance for the investigation of generative themes. When men lack a critical 
understanding of their reality, apprehending it in fragments which they do not 
perceive as interacting constituent elements of the whole, they cannot truly know 
that reality. To know it truly, they would have to reverse their starting point: they 
would need to have a total vision of the context in order subsequently to separate 
and isolate its constituent elements and by means of this analysis to achieve a 
clearer perception of the whole. 

Equally appropriate for the methodology of thematic investi-gation and for 
problem-posing education is this effort to present significant dimensions of an 
individual’ s contextual reality, the analysis of which will make it possible for him 
to recognize the interaction of the various components. Meanwhile the significant 
dimensions, which in their turn consist of parts in interaction, should be perceived 
as dimensions of total reality. In this way, a critical analysis of a significant 
existential dimension makes possible a new, critical attitude towards the limit- 
situations. The perception and comprehension of reality are rectified and acquire 
new depth. When carried out with a methodology of conscientization, the 
investigation of the generative theme contained in the minimum thematic universe 
(the generative themes in interaction) thus introduces or begins to introduce men to 
a critical form of thinking about their world. 

In the event, however, those men perceive reality as dense, impenetrable, and 
enveloping, it is indispensable to proceed with the investigation by means of 
abstraction. This method does not involve reducing .the concrete to the abstract 
(which would negate its dialectical nature), but rather maintaining both elements as 



opposites which interrelate dialectically in the act of reflection. This dialectical 
movement of thought is exemplified perfectly in the analysis of a concrete, 
existential, ‘coded’ situation, Its ‘decoding’ requires moving from the abstract to 
the concrete; this requires moving from the part to the whole and then returning to 
the parts; this in turn requires that the Subject recognize himself in the object (the 
coded concrete existential situation) and recognize the object as a situation in 
which he finds himself, together with other Subjects. If the de-coding is well done, 
this movement of flux and reflux from the abstract to the concrete which occurs in 
the analysis of a coded situation leads to the supersede of the abstraction by the 
critical perception of the concrete, which has already ceased to be a dense, 
impenetrable reality. 

When an individual is presented with a coded existential situation (a sketch or a 
photograph which leads by abstraction to the concreteness of existential reality), 
his tendency is to ‘split’ that coded situation. In the process of decoding, this 
separation corresponds to the stage we call the ‘description of the situation’, and 
facilitates the discovery of the interaction among the parts of the disjoined whole. 
This whole (the coded situation), which previously had been only diffusely 
appre-hended, begins to acquire meaning as thought flows back to it from the 
various dimensions. Since, however, the coding is the representation of an 
existential situation, the decoder tends to take the step from the representation to 
the very concrete situation in which and with which he finds himself. It is thus 
possible to explain conceptually why individuals begin to behave differently in the 
face of objective reality, once that reality has ceased to look like a blind alley and 
has taken on its true aspect: a challenge which men must meet. 

In all the stages of decoding, men exteriorize their view of the world. And in the 
way they think about and face the world - fatalistically, dynamically, or statically - 
their generative themes may be found. A group which does not concretely express 
a generative thematic - a fact which might appear to imply the non-existence of 
themes - is, on the contrary, suggesting a very dramatic theme: the theme of 
silence. The theme of silence suggests a structure of muteness in the face of the 
over-whelming force of the limit-situations. 

I must re-emphasize that the generative theme cannot be found in men, divorced 
from reality; nor yet in reality, divorced from men; much less in ‘no man’s land’. It 
can only be appre-hended in the men-world relationship. To investigate the 
generative theme is to investigate man’s thinking about reality and man’s action 
upon reality, which is his praxis. For precisely this reason, the methodology 
proposed requires the investigators and the people (who would normally be 
considered objects of that investigation) to act as co-investigators. The more active 
an attitude men take in regard to the exploration of their thematics, the more they 



deepen their critical awareness of reality, and in spelling out those thematics, take 
possession of that reality. 

Some may think it inadvisable to include the people as investigators in the 
search for their own meaningful thematics: that their intrusive influence (note, the 
‘intrusion’ of those who are most interested - or ought to be - in their own 
education) will ‘adulterate’ the findings and thereby sacrifice the objectivity of the 
investigation. This view mistakenly presupposes that themes exist, in their original 
objective purity, outside men - as if themes were things. Actually, themes exist in 
men in their relations with the world, with reference to concrete facts. The same 
objective fact could evoke different complexes of generative themes in different 
epochal sub-units. There is, therefore, a relation between the given objective fact, 
the perception men have of this fact, and the generative themes. 

A meaningful thematics is naturally expressed by men, and a given moment of 
expression will differ from an earlier moment, if men have changed their 
perception of the objective facts to which the themes refer. From the investigator’s 
point of view, the important thing is to detect the starting point at which men 
visualize the ‘given’, then verify whether or not during the process of investigation 
any transformation has occurred in their way of perceiving reality. (Objective 
reality, of course, remains unchanged If the perception of that reality changes in 
the course of the investigation, that fact does not impair the validity of the 
investigation.) 

We must realize that the aspirations, the motives, and the objectives implicit in 
meaningful thematics are human aspira-tions, motives, and objectives. They do not 
exist ‘out there’ somewhere, as static entities: they are occurring. They are as 
historical as men themselves; consequently, they cannot be apprehended apart from 
men. To apprehend these themes and to understand them is to understand both the 
men who embody them and the reality to which they refer. But - precisely because 
it is not possible to understand these themes apart from men -it is necessary for the 
men concerned to understand them as well. Thematic investigation thus becomes a 
common striving towards awareness of reality and self, thus making it a starting 
point for the educational process or for cultural action of a liberating character; 

The real danger of the investigation is not that the supposed objects of the 
investigation, discovering themselves to be co-investigators, might ‘adulterate’ the 
analytical results. On the contrary, the danger lies in the risk” of shifting the focus 
of the investigation from the meaningful themes to the people them-selves, thereby 
treating the people as objects of the investigation. Since this investigation is to 
serve as a .basis for developing an educational programme in which teacher- 
student and students-teachers combine their cognitions of the same object, the 
in-vestigation itself must likewise be based, on reciprocity of action. 



Thematic investigation, which occurs in the realm of the human, cannot be 
reduced to a mechanical act. As a process of search, of knowledge, and thus of 
creation, it requires the investigators to discover the interpenetration of problems, 
in the linking of meaningful themes. The investigation will be most educational 
when it is most critical and most critical when it avoids the narrow outlines of 
partial or ‘focalized’ views of reality, and sticks to the comprehension of total 
reality. Thus, the process of searching for the meaningful thematics should include 
a concern for the links between themes, a concern to pose these themes as 
problems, and a concern for their historical-cultural context. 

Just as the educator may not elaborate a programme to present to the people, 
neither may the investigator, starting from points he has predetermined, elaborate 
‘itineraries’ for research into the thematic universe himself. Both education and the 
investigation designed to support it must be ‘sympathetic’ activities, in the 
etymological sense of the word. That is, they must consist of communication and 
of the common experience of a reality perceived in the complexity of its constant 
‘becoming’. 

The investigator who, in the name of scientific objectivity, transforms the 
organic into something inorganic, what is becoming into what is, life into death, is 
a man who fears change. He does not see in change (not denying it, but not 
desiring it either) a sign of life, but a sign of death and decay. He wants to study 
change - but in order to stop it, not in order to stimulate or deepen it. However, in 
seeing change as a sign of death and in making people the passive objects of 
investiga-tion in order to arrive at rigid models, he betrays his own character as a 
destroyer of life. 

I repeat: the investigation of thematics involves the investi-gation of the 
people’s thinking - thinking which occurs only in and among men seeking out 
reality together. I cannot think for others or without others, nor can others think for 
me. Even if the people’s thinking is superstitious or naive, it is only as they rethink 
their assumptions in action that they can change. Producing and acting upon their 
own ideas - not absorbing those of others - must constitute that process. 

Men, as beings ‘in a situation’, find themselves rooted in temporal-spatial 
conditions which mark them and which they also mark. They will tend to reflect on 
their own ‘situationality’ to the extent that it challenges them to act upon it. Men 
are because they are in a situation. And they will be more the more they not only 
critically reflect upon their existence but critically act upon it. 

Reflection upon situationality is reflection about the very condition of existence: 
critical thinking through which men discover each other to be ‘in a situation’. Only 
as this situation ceases to present itself as a dense, enveloping reality or a 



tor-menting blind alley, and men can come to perceive it as an objective- 
problematic situation - only then can commitment exist. Men emerge from their 
submersion and acquire the ability to intervene in reality as it is unveiled. 
Intervention in reality historical awareness itself - thus represents a step forward 
from emergence, and results from the conscientization of the situa-tion. 
Conscientization is the deepening of the attitude of awareness characteristic of all 
emergence. 

Every thematic investigation which deepens historical aware-ness is thus really 
educational, while all authentic education investigates thinking. The more 
educators and the people investigate the people’s thinking, and are thus jointly 
educated, the more they continue to investigate. Education and thematic 
investigation, in the problem-posing concept of education, are simply different 
moments of the same process. 

In contrast with the anti-dialogical and non-communicative ‘deposits’ of the 
banking method of education, the programme content of the problem-posing 
method - dialogical par excel-lence - is constituted and organized by the students’ 
view of the world, where their own generative themes are found. The content thus 
constantly expands and renews itself. The task of the dialogical teacher in an 
interdisciplinary team working on the thematic universe revealed by their 
investigation is to ‘represent’ that universe to the people from whom he first 
received , it and ‘represent’ it not as a lecture, but as a problem. 

Let us say, for example, that a group has the responsibility of coordinating a 
plan for adult education in a peasant area with a high percentage of illiteracy. The 
plan includes a literacy campaign and a post-literacy phase. During the former 
stage, problem-posing education seeks out and investigates the ‘generative word’; 
in the post-literacy stage, it seeks out and investigates the ‘generative theme’. 

Let us here, however, consider only the investigation of the generative themes or 
the meaningful thematics. Once the investigators have determined the area in 
which they will work and have acquired a preliminary acquaintance with it through 
secondary sources, they initiate the first stage of the investigation. This beginning 
(like any beginning in any human activity) involves difficulties and risks which are 
to a certain point normal, although they are not always evident in the first contact 
with the individuals of the area. In this first contact, the investigators need to get a 
significant number of people to agree to an informal meeting during which they 
can talk about their objectives in being in the area. In this meeting they explain the 
reason for the investigation, how it is to be carried out, and what use will be made 
of it; they further explain that the investigation will be impossible without a 
relation of mutual understanding and trust. If the participants agree both to the 
investigation and to the subsequent process, the investigators should call for 



volunteers among the participants to serve as assistants. These volunteers will 
gather a series of necessary data about the life of the area. Of even greater 
importance, however, is the active presence of these volunteer in the investigation. 

Meanwhile, the investigators begin their own visits to the area, never forcing 
themselves, but acting as sympathetic ob-servers with an attitude of understanding 
towards what they see. While it is normal for investigators to come to the area with 
values which influence their perceptions, this does not mean that they may 
transform the thematic investigation into a means of imposing these values. The 
only dimension of these values which it is hoped the men whose thematics are 
being investigated will come to share (it is presumed that the investigators possess 
this quality) is a critical perception of the world, which implies a correct method of 
approaching reality in order to unveil it. And critical perception cannot be 
imposed. Thus, from the very beginning, thematic investigation is expressed as an 
educational pursuit, as cultural action. 

During their visits, the investigators set then- critical ‘aim* on the area under 
study, as if it were for them an enormous, unique, living ‘code’ to be deciphered. 
They regard the area as a totality, and in visit upon visit attempt to ‘split’ it by 
analysing the partial dimensions which impress them. Through this process they 
expand their understanding of how the various parts interact, which will later help 
them penetrate the totality itself. 

During this decoding stage, the investigators observe certain moments of the life 
of the area - sometimes directly, sometimes by means of informal conversations 
with the inhabitants. They register everything in their notebooks, including 
apparently unimportant items: the way the people talk, their style of life, their 
behaviour at church and at work. They record the idiom of the people: their 
expressions, their vocabulary, and their syntax (not their incorrect pronunciation, 
but rather the way they construct their thought). 

It is essential for the investigators to observe the area under varying 
circumstances: labour in the fields, meetings of a local association (noting the 
behaviour of the participants, the langu-age used, and the relations between the 
officers and the mem-bers), the role played by women and young people, leisure 
hours, games and sports, conversations with people in their homes (noting 
examples of husband-wife and parent-child relationships). No activity must escape 
the attention of the investigators during the initial survey of the area. 

After each observation visit, the investigator should draw up a brief report to be 
discussed by the entire team, in order to evaluate the preliminary findings of both 
the professional in-vestigators and the local assistants. To facilitate the 



participa-tion of the assistants, the evaluation meetings should be held in the area 
itself. 

The evaluation meetings represent a second stage in the decoding of the unique 
living code. As each person, in his decoding essay, relates how he perceived or felt 
a certain event or situation, his exposition challenges all the other decoders by 
representing to them the same reality upon which they have themselves been 
intent. At this moment they ‘reconsider’, through the ‘considerations’ of others, 
their own previous ‘consideration’. Thus the analysis of reality made by each 
individual decoder sends them all back, dialogically, to the disjoined whole which 
once more becomes a totality evoking a new analysis by the investigators, 
following which a new evaluative and critical meeting will be held. 
Representatives of the in-habitants participate in aft activities as members of the 
investi-gating team. 

The more the group divide and reintegrate the whole; the more closely they 
approach the nuclei of the principal and secondary contradictions which involve 
the inhabitants of the area. By locating these nuclei of contradictions, the 
investigators might even at this stage be able to organize the programme con-tent 
of their educational action. Indeed, if the content reflected these contradictions, it 
would undoubtedly contain the meaningful thematics of the area. And one can 
safely affirm that action based on these observations would be much more likely to 
succeed than that based on ‘decisions from the top’. The investigators should not, 
however, be tempted by this possibility. The basic thing, starting from the initial 
perception of these nuclei of contradictions (which include the principal 
con-tradiction of society as a larger epochal unit) is to study the inhabitants’ level 
of awareness of these contradictions. 

Intrinsically, these contradictions constitute limit-situations, involve themes, and 
indicate tasks. If individuals are caught up in and are unable to separate themselves 
from these limit-situations, their theme in reference to these situations is fatalism, 
and the task implied, by the theme is the lack of a task. Thus, although the limit- 
situations are objective realities which call forth needs in individuals, one must 
investigate with these indi-viduals their level of awareness of these situations. 

A limit-situation as a concrete reality can call forth from people in different 
areas (and even in sub-areas of the same area) quite opposite themes and tasks. 
Thus, the basic concern of the investigators should be to concentrate on the 
knowledge of what Goldmann calls ‘real consciousness’ and the ‘potential 
con-sciousness’. ‘Real consciousness [is] the result of the multiple obstacles and 
deviations that the different factors of empirical reality put into opposition and 
submit for realization by [the] potential consciousness.’ 



Real consciousness implies the impossibility of perceiving the ‘untested 
feasibility’ which lies beyond the limit-situations. But whereas the untested 
feasibility cannot be achieved at the level of ‘real [or present] consciousness’, it 
can be realized through ‘testing action’ which reveals its hitherto unperceived 
viability. The untested feasibility and real consciousness are related, as are testing 
action and potential consciousness. Goldmann’s concept of ‘potential 
consciousness’ is similar to what Nicolai terms ‘unperceived practicable solutions’ 
(our ‘un-tested feasibility’), in contrast to ‘perceived practicable solutions’ and 
‘presently practised solutions’, which correspond to Goldmann’s ‘real 
consciousness’. Accordingly, the fact that the investigators may in the first stage of 
the investigation approximately apprehend the complex of contradictions does not 
authorize them to begin to structure the programme content of educational action. 
This perception of reality is still their own, not that of the people. 

It is with the apprehension of the complex of contradictions that the second 
stage of the investigation begins. Always acting as a team, the investigators will 
select some of these contradictions to develop the codifications to be used in the 
thematic investigation. Since the codifications (sketches or photographs) are the 
objects which mediate the decoders in their critical analysis, the preparation of 
these codifications must be guided by certain principles other than the usual ones 
for making visual aids. 

The first requirement is that these codifications must necessarily represent 
situations familiar to the individuals whose thematics are being examined, so that 
they can easily recognize the situations (and thus their own relation to them). It is 
in-admissible (whether during the process of investigation or in the following 
stage, when the meaningful thematics are presented as programme content) to 
present pictures of reality unfamiliar to the participants. The latter procedure 
(although dialectical, because individuals analysing an unfamiliar reality could 
com-pare it with their own and discover the limitations of each) cannot come 
before the more basic one dictated by the participants’ state of submersion, that is, 
the process in which individuals analysing their own reality become aware of their 
earlier, distorted perceptions and thereby arrive at a new perception of that reality. 

An equally fundamental requirement for the preparation of codifications is that 
their thematic nucleus be neither too explicit nor too enigmatic. The former may 
degenerate into mere prop-aganda, with no real decoding to be done beyond stating 
the obviously predetermined content. The latter runs the risk of appearing to be a 
puzzle or a guessing game. Since they represent existential situations, the 
codifications should be simple in their complexity and offer various decoding 
possibilities in order to avoid the brain-washing tendencies of propaganda. 



Codifications are not slogans; they are cognizable objects, challenges towards 
which the critical reflection of the decoders should be directed. 

In order to offer various possibilities of analysis in the decoding process, the 
codifications should be organized as a ‘thematic fan’. As the decoders reflect on 
them, the codifica-tions should open up in the direction of other themes. This 
opening up (which does not occur if the thematic content is either too explicit or 
too enigmatic) is indispensable to the perception of the dialectical relations which 
exist between the themes and their opposites. Accordingly, the codifications 
reflecting an existential situation must objectively constitute a totality. Its elements 
must interact in the makeup of the whole. 

In the process of decoding, the participants externalize their thematics and 
thereby make explicit their ‘real consciousness’ of the world. As they do this, they 
begin to see how they them-selves acted while actually experiencing the situation 
they are now analysing, and thus reach a ‘perception of their previous perception’. 
By achieving this awareness, they come to perceive reality differently; by 
broadening the horizon of their perception, they discover more easily in their’ 
background awareness’ the dialectical relations between these two dimensions of 
reality. 

By stimulating ‘perception of the previous perception’ and ‘knowledge of the 
previous knowledge’, decoding stimulates the appearance of a new perception and 
the development of new knowledge. The new perception and knowledge are 
systematically continued with the inauguration of the educational plan, which 
transforms the untested feasibility into testing action, as potential consciousness 
supersedes real consciousness. 

Preparing the codifications further requires that as far as possible they should 
represent contradictions ‘inclusive’ of others which constitute the system of 
contradictions of the area under study. As each of these ‘inclusive’ codifications is 
prepared, the other contradictions ‘contained’ therein should also be codified. The 
decoding of the former will be dialectically clarified by the decoding of the latter. 

In this connection, a very valuable contribution to our method has been made by 
Gabriel Bode, a young Chilean civil servant in one of the most significant Chilean 
governmental institutions: the Institute de Desarrollo Agropecuario (IND AP)." In 
the course of using this method in the post-literacy stage, Bode observed that the 
peasants became interested in the discussion only when the codification related 
directly to their felt needs. Any deviation in the codification, as well as any attempt 
by the educator to guide the decoding discussion into other areas, produced silence 
and indifference. On the other ‘ hand, he observed that even when the codification A 
centred on their felt needs the peasants could not manage to concentrate 



systematically on the discussion, which often digressed to the point of never 
reaching a synthesis; Also, they almost never perceived the relationship of their felt 
needs to the direct and indirect causes of these needs. One might say that they 
failed to perceive the untested feasibility lying beyond the limit situations which 
engendered their needs. 

Bode then decided to experiment with the simultaneous projection of different 
situations; in this technique lies the value of his contribution. Initially, he projects a 
very simple codification of an existential situation. He terms his ‘first codification 
‘es-sentiaf; it represents the basic nucleus and opens up into a. thematic fan 
extending to ‘auxiliary’ codifications. After the essential codification is decoded, 
the educator maintains its projected image as a reference for the participants and 
successively projects alongside it the auxiliary codifications. By means of the 
latter, which are directly related to the essential codification, he sustains the vivid 
interest of the participants, who are thereby enabled to reach a synthesis. 

The great achievement of Gabriel Bode is that, by means of the dialectics 
between the essential and the auxiliary codifications, he has managed to 
communicate to the participants a sense of totality. Individuals, who were 
submerged in reality, merely feeling their needs, emerge from reality and perceive 
the causes of their needs. In this way, they can go beyond the level of real 
consciousness to that of potential consciousness much more rapidly. 

Once the codifications have been prepared and all their poss-ible thematic facets 
have been studied by the interdisciplinary team, the investigators begin the third 
stage of the investigation by returning to the area to if initiate decoding dialogues 
in the ‘thematic investigation circles’. These discussions, which decode the 
material prepared in the preceding stage, are taped for sub-sequent analysis by the 
interdisciplinary team.” In addition to the investigator acting as decoding co- 
ordinator, two other specialists - a psychologist and a sociologist - attend the 
meet-ings. Their task is to note and record the significant (and, apparently 
insignificant) reactions of the decoders. 

During the decoding process, the co-ordinator must not only listen to the 
individuals but must challenge them, posing as ; problems both the codified 
existential situation and their own answers. Due to the cathartic force of the 
methodology, the participants of the thematic investigation circles externalize a 
series of sentiments and opinions about themselves, the world, and others, that 
perhaps they would not express under different circumstances. 

In one of the thematic investigations carried out in Santiago, a group of 
tenement residents discussed a scene showing a drunken man walking on the street 
and three young men conversing on the comer. The group participants commented 



that ‘the only one there who is productive and useful to his country is the souse 
who is returning home after working all day for low wages and who is worried 
about his family because he can’t take care of their needs. He is the only worker. 
He is a decent worker and a souse like us.’ 

The investigators had intended to study aspects of alcohol-ism. He probably 
would not have elicited the above responses if he had presented the participants 
with a questionnaire he had elaborated himself. If asked directly, they might even 
have denied ever taking a drink themselves. But in their comments on the 
codification of an existential situation they could recognize, and in which they 
could recognize themselves, they said what they really felt. 

There are two important aspects to these declarations. On the one hand, they 
verbalize the connection between earning low wages, feeling exploited, and getting 
drunk - getting drunk ‘as a flight from reality, as an attempt to overcome the 
frustra-tion of inaction, as an ultimately self-destructive solution. On the other 
hand, they manifest the need to rate the drunkard highly. He is the ‘only one useful 
to his country, because he works, while the others only gab’. After praising the 
drunkard, the participants then identify themselves with him, as workers who also 
drink - ‘decent workers’. 

In contrast, imagine the failure of a moralistic educator, sermonizing against 
alcoholism and presenting as an example of virtue something which for these men 
is not a manifestation of virtue. In this and in other cases, the only sound procedure 
is the conscientization of the situation, which should be attempted from the start of 
the thematic investigation. (Obviously, conscientization does not stop at the level 
of mere subjective perception of a situation, but through action prepares men for 
the struggle against the obstacles to their humanization.) 

In another experience, this time with peasants, I observed that the unchanging 
motif during an entire discussion of a situation depicting work in the fields was the 
demand for an increase in wages and the necessity of joining together to create a 
union to obtain this particular demand. Three situations were discussed during the 
session, and the motif was always the same. 

Now imagine an educator who has organized his educational programme for 
these men, consisting of reading ‘wholesome’ texts in which one learns that ‘the 
water is in the well’. But precisely this type of thing happens all the time in both 
educa-tion and politics, because it is not realized that the dialogical nature of 
education begins with thematic investigation. 

Once the decoding in the circles has been completed, the last stage of the 
investigation begins, as the investigators under-take a systematic interdisciplinary 
study of their findings. 



Listening to the tapes recorded during the decoding sessions and studying the 
notes taken by the psychologist and the sociologist, the investigators begin to list 
the themes explicit or implicit in the affirmations made during the sessions. These 
themes should be classified according to the various social sciences. Classification 
does not mean that when the programme is elaborated the themes will be seen as 
belonging to isolated categories, but only that a theme is viewed in a specific 
manner by each of the social sciences to which it is related. The theme of 
development, for example, is especially appropriate to the field of economics, but 
not exclusively so. This theme would also be focalized by sociology, anthropology, 
and social psychology (fields concerned with cultural change and with the 
modification of attitudes and values - questions which are equally relevant to a 
philosophy of development). It would be focalized by political science (a field 
concerned with the decisions which involve development), by education, and so 
forth. In this way, the themes which characterize a totality will never be 
approached rigidly. It would indeed be a pity if the themes, after being investigated 
in the richness of their interpenetration with other aspects of reality, were 
subsequently to be handled in such a way as to sacrifice their richness (and hence 
their force) to the strictures of specialties. 

Once the thematic demarcation is completed, each specialist presents to the 
interdisciplinary team a project for the ‘break-down ‘of his theme. In breaking 
down the theme, the specialist looks for the fundamental nuclei which, comprising 
learning units and establishing a sequence, give a general view of the theme. As 
each specific project is discussed, the other specialists make suggestions. These 
may be incorporated into the project and/or may be included in the brief essays to 
be written on the theme. These essays, to which bibliographic suggestions are 
an-nexed, are valuable aids in training the teacher-students who will work in the 
‘culture circles’. 

During this effort to break down the meaningful thematics, the team will 
recognize the need to include some fundamental themes which were not directly 
suggested by the people during the preceding investigation. The introduction of 
these themes has proved to be necessary, and also corresponds to the dialogical 
character of education. If educational programming is dialogical, the teacher- 
students also have the right to participate by including themes not previously 
suggested. I call the latter type of theme ‘hinged themes’, owing to their function. 
They may either facilitate the connection between two themes in the programme 
unit, filling a possible gap between the two; or they may illustrate the relations 
between the general programme content and the view of the world held by the 
people. Hence, one of these themes may be located at the beginning of thematic 
units. 



The anthropological concept of culture is one of these hinged themes. It clarifies 
the role of men in the world and with the world as transforming rather than 
adaptive beings. 

Once the breakdown of the thematics is completed, there follows the stage of its 
‘codification’: choosing the best channel of communication for each theme and its 
representation, A codification may be simple or compound. The former utilizes 
either the visual (pictorial or graphic), the tactile, or the auditive channel; the latter 
utilizes various channels. The selection of the pictorial OF graphic channel depends 
not only on the material to be codified, but also on whether or not the indiv-iduals 
with whom one wishes to communicate are literate. 

After the thematics has been codified, the didactic material (photographs, slides, 
film strips, posters, reading texts, and so forth) is prepared. The team may propose 
some themes or aspects of some themes to outside specialists as topics for recorded 
interviews. 

Let us take the theme of development as an example. The team approaches two 
or more economists of varying schools of thought, tells them about the programme, 
and invites them to contribute an interview on the subject in language 
compre-hensible to the audience. If the specialists accept, an interview of fifteen to 
twenty minutes is taped. A photograph may be taken of each specialist while he is 
speaking. 

When the taped interview is presented to the culture circle, an introductory 
statement indicates who each speaker is, what he has written, what he has done, 
and what he is doing now; meanwhile, his photograph is projected on a screen. If, 
for instance, the speaker is a university professor, the introduction could include a 
discussion regarding what the participants think of universities and what they 
expect of them. The group has already been told that the recorded interview will be 
followed by a discussion of its contents (which function as an auditive 
codification). The team subsequently reports to the specialist the reaction of the 
participants during the discussion. This technique links intellectuals, often well- 
intentioned, but not infrequently alienated from “the reality of the people, to that 
reality. It also gives the people an opportunity to bear and criticize the thought of 
intellectuals. 

Some themes or nuclei may be presented by means of brief dramatizations, 
containing the theme only - no ‘solutions’! The dramatization acts as a 
codification, as a problem-posing situation to be discussed. 

Another didactic resource - as long as it is carried out within a problem-posing 
rather than a banking approach to education is the reading and discussion of 
magazine articles, newspapers, and book chapters (beginning with passages). As in 



the case of the recorded interviews, the author is introduced before the group 
begins, and the contents are discussed afterwards. 

Along the same lines, it is indispensable to analyse the con-tents of newspaper 
editorials following any given event: ‘Why do different newspapers have such 
different interpretations of the same fact?’ This practice helps develop a sense of 
criticism, so that people will react to newspapers or news broadcasts not as passive 
objects of the ‘communique’s’ directed at them, but rather as consciousnesses 
seeking to be free. 

With all the didactic material prepared, to which should be added small 
introductory manuals, the team of educators is ready to represent to the people 
their own thematics, in systematized and amplified form. The thematics which 
have come from the people return to them - not as contents to be deposited,’ but as 
problems to be solved. 

The first task of the basic education teachers is to present the general 
programme of the educational campaign. The people will find themselves in this 
programme; it will not seem strange to them, since it originated with them. The 
educators will also explain (based on the dialogical character of education), the 
presence in the programme of the hinged themes, and their significance. 

If the educators lack sufficient funds to carry out the preliminary thematic 
investigation as described above, they can with a minimum knowledge of the 
situation - select some basic themes to serve as ‘codifications to be investigated’. 
Accordingly, they can begin with introductory themes and simultaneously initiate 
further thematic investigation. 

One of these basic themes (and one which I consider central and indispensable) 
is the anthropological concept of culture. Whether men are peasants or urban 
workers, learning to read or enrolled in a post-literacy programme, the starting 
point of their search to know more (in the instrumental meaning of the term) is the 
debate of the concept. As they discuss the world of culture, they express their level 
of awareness of reality, in which various themes are implicit. Their discussion 
touches upon other aspects of reality, which comes to be perceived in an 
increasingly critical manner. These aspects in turn involve many other themes. 

With the experience now behind me, I can affirm that the concept of culture, 
discussed imaginatively in all or most of its dimensions, can provide various 
aspects of an educational programme. In addition, after several days of dialogue 
with the culture circle participants, the educators can ask the participants directly: 
‘What other themes or subjects could we discuss besides these?’ As each person 
replies, the answer is noted down and is immediately proposed to the group as a 
problem. 



One of the group members may say, for example: ‘I’d like to talk about 
nationalism.’ ‘Very well,’ says the educator, noting down the suggestion, and adds: 
‘What does nationalism mean? Why is a discussion about nationalism of any 
interest to us?’ My experience shows that when a suggestion is posed as a problem 
to the group, new themes appear. If, in an area where (for example) thirty culture 
circles meet on the same night, all the ‘co-ordinators’ ‘(educators) proceed in this 
fashion, the central team will have a rich variety of thematic material for study. 

The important thing, from the point of view of libertarian education, is for men 
to come to feel like masters of their thinking by discussing the thinking and views 
of the world explicitly or implicitly manifest in their own suggestions and those of 
their comrades. Because this view of education starts with the conviction that it 
cannot present its own programme but must search for this programme dialogically 
with the people, it serves to introduce the pedagogy of the oppressed, in the 
development of which the oppressed must participate. 


Chapter 4 

This chapter, which analyses the theories of cultural action that develop from 
anti-dialogical and dialogical matrices, will make frequent reference to points 
presented in the previous chapters, either to expand these points or to clarify new 
affirmations. 

I shall start by reaffirming that men, as beings of the praxis, differ from animals, 
which are beings of pure activity. Animals do not consider the world; they are 
immersed in it. In contrast, men emerge from the world, objectify it, and in so 
doing can understand and transform it with their labour. 

Animals, which do not labour, live in a setting which they cannot transcend. 
Hence, each animal species lives in the context appropriate to it, and these 
contexts, while open to men, cannot communicate among themselves. 

But men’s activity consists of action and reflection: it is praxis; it is 
transformation of the world. And as praxis, it requires theory to illuminate it. 
Men’s activity is theory and practice; it is reflection and action. It cannot, as I 
stressed in chapter 2, be reduced to either verbalism or activism. 

Lenin’s famous statement: ‘Without a revolutionary theory there can be no 
revolutionary movement’ (see Henry M. Christian edition) means that a revolution 
is achieved with neither verbalism nor activism, but rather with praxis, that is, with 
reflection and action directed at the structures to be transformed. The revolutionary 
effort to transform these structures radically cannot designate its leaders as its 
thinkers and the oppressed as mere doers. 


If true commitment to the people, involving the transforma-tion of the reality by 
which they are oppressed, requires a theory of transforming action, this theory 
cannot fail to assign to the people a fundamental role in the transformation process. 
The leaders cannot treat the oppressed as mere activists to be denied the 
opportunity of reflection and allowed merely the illusion of acting, whereas in fact 
they would continue to be manipulated - and in this case by the presumed foes of 
manipulation. 

The leaders do bear the responsibility for co-ordination - and, at times, direction 
- but leaders who deny praxis to the op-pressed thereby invalidate their own praxis. 
By imposing then-word on others, they falsify that word and establish a 
contra-diction between their methods and their objectives. If they are truly 
committed to liberation, their action and reflection can-not proceed without the 
action and reflection of others. 

Revolutionary praxis must stand opposed to the praxis of the dominant elites, for 
they are by nature antithetical. Revolution-ary praxis cannot tolerate an absurd 
dichotomy in which the praxis of the people is merely that of following the 
leaders’ decisions - a dichotomy reflecting the prescriptive methods of the 
dominant elites. Revolutionary praxis is a unity, and the leaders cannot treat the 
oppressed as their possession. 

Manipulation, sloganizing, “depositing’, regimentation, and prescription cannot 
be components of revolutionary praxis, precisely because they are components of 
the praxis of domina-tion. In order to dominate, the dominator has no choice but to 
deny true praxis to the people, deny them the right to say their own word and think 
their own thoughts. He cannot act dialogically; for him to do so would mean either 
that he had relin-quished his power to dominate and joined the cause of the 
oppressed, or that he had lost that power through miscalculation. 

Conversely, revolutionary leaders who do not act dialogically in their relations 
with the people either have retained characteristics of the dominator and are not 
truly revolutionary; or they are totally misguided in their conception of their role, 
and prisoners of their own sectarianism - are equally non-revolutionary. They may 
even reach power. But the validity of any revolution resulting from anti-dialogical 
action is thoroughly doubtful. 

It is absolutely essential that the oppressed participate in the revolutionary 
process with an increasingly critical awareness of their role as Subjects of the 
transformation. If they are drawn into the process as ambiguous beings, partly 
themselves and partly the oppressors housed within them - and if they come to 
power still embodying that ambiguity imposed on them by the situation of 
oppression - it is my contention that they will merely imagine they have reached 



power. Their existential duality may even facilitate the rise of a sectarian climate 
leading to the installation of bureaucracies which undermine the revolu-tion. If the 
oppressed do not become aware of this ambiguity during the course of the 
revolutionary process, they may participate in that process with a spirit more 
revanchist than revolutionary. They may aspire to revolution as a means of 
domination, rather than as a road to liberation. 

If revolutionary leaders who incarnate a genuine humanism have difficulties, the 
difficulties and problems will be far greater for a group of leaders who try (even 
with the best of intentions) to carry out the revolution for the people. To attempt 
this is equivalent to carrying out a revolution without the people, because the 
people are drawn into the process by the same methods and procedures used to 
oppress them. 

Dialogue with the people is radically necessary to every authentic revolution. 
This is what makes it a revolution, as distinguished from a military coup. One does 
not expect dialogue from a coup - only deceit (in order to achieve ‘legitimacy’) or 
force (in order to repress). Sooner or later, a true revolution must initiate a 
courageous dialogue with the people. Its very legitimacy lies in that dialogue. It 
cannot fear the people, their expression, their effective participation in power. It 
must be accountable to them, must speak frankly to them of its achievements, its 
mistakes, its miscalculations, and its difficulties. 

The earlier dialogue begins the more truly revolutionary will the movement be. 
This dialogue which is radically necessary to revolution corresponds to another 
radical need: that of men as beings who cannot be truly human apart from 
communication, for they are essentially communicative creatures. To impede 
communication is to reduce men to the status of ‘things’ and that is a job for 
oppressors, not for revolutionaries. 

Let me emphasize that my defence of the praxis implies no dichotomy by which 
this praxis could be divided into a prior stage of reflection and a subsequent stage 
of action. Action and reflection occur simultaneously. A critical analysis of reality 
may, however, reveal that a particular form of action is im-possible or 
inappropriate at the present time. Those who through reflection perceive the 
unfeasibility or inappropriate-ness of one or another form of action (which should 
accordingly be postponed or substituted) cannot thereby be accused of in-action. 
Critical reflection is also action. 

I previously stated that in education the attempt of the teacher-student to 
understand a cognizable object is not ex-hausted in that object, because his act 
extends to other students-teachers in such a way that the cognizable object 
mediates their capacity for understanding. The same is true of revolutionary action. 



That is, the oppressed and the leaders are equally the Subjects of revolutionary 
action, and reality serves as the med-ium for the transforming action of both 
groups. In this theory of action one cannot speak of an actor, nor simply of actors, 
but rather of actors in intercommunication. 

This affirmation might appear to imply division, dichotomy, and rupture of the 
revolutionary forces; in fact, it signifies exactly the opposite: their communion. 
Apart from this communion, we do see dichotomy: leaders on one side and people 
on the other, in a replica of the relations of oppression. Denial of communion in the 
revolutionary process, avoidance of dialogue with the people under the pretext of 
organizing them, of strengthening revolutionary power, or of ensuring a united 
front, is really a fear of freedom. It is fear of or lack of faith in the people. But if 
the people cannot be trusted, there is no reason for liberation; in this case the 
revolution is not even carried out for the people, but ‘by’ the people for the 
leaders: a complete self-negation. 

The revolution is made neither by the leaders for the people, nor by the people 
for the leaders, but by both acting together in unshakeable solidarity. This 
solidarity is bom only when the leaders witness to it by their humble, loving, and 
courageous encounter with the people. Not all men have sufficient courage for this 
encounter - but when men avoid encounter they become inflexible and treat others 
as mere objects; instead of nurturing life they kill life; instead of searching for life, 
they flee from it. And these are oppressor characteristics. 

Some may think that to affirm dialogue - the encounter of men in the world to 
transform the world - is naively and subjectively idealistic. There is nothing, 
however, more real or concrete than men in the world and with the world, than 
men with other men - and some men against others, as oppressing and oppressed 
classes. 

Authentic revolution attempts to transform the reality which begets this 
dehumanizing state of affairs. Those whose interests are served by that reality 
cannot carry out this transformation; it must be achieved by the tyrannized, with 
their leaders. This tmth, however, must become radically consequential; that is, the 
leaders must incarnate it, through communion with the people. In this communion 
both groups grow together, and the leaders, instead of being simply self-appointed, 
are installed or authenticated in their praxis with the praxis of the people. 

Many persons, bound to a mechanistic view of reality, do not perceive that the 
concrete situation of men conditions their consciousness of the world, and that in 
turn this consciousness conditions their attitudes and their ways of dealing with 
reality. They think that reality can be transformed mechanistically without posing 
men’s false consciousness of reality as a problem or, through revolutionary action, 



developing a consciousness which is less and less false. There is no historical 
reality which is not human. There is no history without men, and no history for 
men; there is only history of men, made by men and (as Marx pointed out) in turn 
making them. It is when the majorities are denied their right to participate hi 
history as Subjects that they become dominated and alienated. Thus, to supersede 
their condition as objects by the status of Subjects - the objective of any true 
revolution - requires the people to act, as well as reflect, upon the reality to be 
transformed. 

It would indeed be idealistic to affirm that, by merely reflecting on oppressive 
reality and discovering their status as objects, men have thereby already become 
Subjects. But while this perception in and of itself does not mean that men have 
become Subjects, it does mean, as one of my co-investigators affirmed, that they 
are ‘Subjects in expectancy ’ - an expectancy which leads them to seek to solidify 
their new status. 

On the other hand, it would be a false premise to believe that activism (which is 
not true action) is the road to revolution. Men will be truly critical if they live the 
plenitude of the praxis, that is, if their action encompasses a critical reflection 
which increasingly organizes their thinking and thus leads them to move from a 
purely naive knowledge of reality to a higher level, one which enables them to 
perceive the causes of reality. If revolutionary leaders deny this right to the people, 
they impair their own capacity to think - or at least to think correctly. 
Revolutionary leaders cannot think without the people, or for the people, but only 
with the people. 

The dominant elites, on the other hand, can - and do - think without the people - 
although they do not permit themselves the luxury of failing to think about the 
people in order to know them better and thus dominate them more efficiently. 
Consequently, any apparent dialogue or communication between the elites and the 
masses is really the depositing of ‘communiques’, whose contents are intended to 
exercise a domesticating influence. 

Why do the dominant elites not become debilitated when they do not think with 
the people ? Because the latter constitute their antithesis, their very reason for 
existence. If the elites were to thi nk with the people, the contradiction would be 
superseded and they could no longer dominate. From the point of view of the 
dominators in any epoch, correct thinking pre-supposes the non-thinking of the 
people. Niebuhr writes: 

A Mr Giddy, later President of the Royal Society raised objections which could 
be matched in every country; ‘However specious in theory the project might be of 
giving education to the labouring classes of the poor, it would be prejudicial to 



their morals and happiness; it would teach them to despise their lot in life instead 
of making them good servants in agriculture and other laborious employments; 
instead of teaching them subordination it would render them fractious, and 
refractory as was evident in the manufacturing countries; it would enable them to 
read seditious pamphlets, vicious books and publications against Christianity; it 
would render them insolent to their superiors and in a few years the legislature 
would find it necessary to direct the strong arm of power against them. ’ 

What Mr Giddy really wanted (and what the elites of today want, although they 
do not denounce popular education so cynically and openly) was for the people not 
to think. Since the Mr Giddys of all epochs, as an oppressor class, cannot think 
with the people, neither can they let the people think for themselves. 

The same is not true, however, of revolutionary leaders; if they do not think with 
the people, they become devitalized. The people are their constituent matrix, not 
merely objects thought’ of. Although revolutionary leaders may also have to think 
about the people in order to understand them better, this thinking differs from that 
of the elite; for in thinking about the people in order to liberate (rather than 
dominate) them, the leaders give of themselves to the thinking of the people. One 
is the thinking of the master the other is the thinking of the comrade. 

Domination, by its very nature, requires only a dominant pole and a dominated 
pole in antithetical contradiction; revo-lutionary liberation, which attempts to 
resolve this contradiction, implies the existence not only of these poles but also of 
a leadership group which emerges during this attempt. This leadership group either 
identifies itself with the oppressed state of the people, or it is not revolutionary. To 
simply think about the people, as the dominators do, without any self-giving in that 
thought, to fail to think with the people, is a sure way to cease being revolutionary 
leaders. 

In the process of oppression the elites subsist on the ‘living death’ of the 
oppressed and find their authentication in the vertical relationship between 
themselves and the latter; in the revolutionary process there is only one way for the 
emerging leaders to achieve authenticity: they must ‘die’, in order to be reborn 
through and with the oppressed. 

We can legitimately say that in the process of oppression someone oppresses 
someone else; we cannot say that in the process of revolution someone liberates 
someone else, nor yet that someone liberates himself, but rather that men in 
com-munion liberate each other. This affirmation is not meant to undervalue the 
importance of revolutionary leaders but, on the contrary, to emphasize their value. 
What could be more important than to live and work with the oppressed, with the 
‘rejects of life’, with the ‘wretched of the earth’? In this communion, the 



revolutionary leaders should find not only their raison d’etre but a motive for 
rejoicing. By their very nature, revolu-tionary leaders can do what the dominant 
elites - by their very nature - are unable to do in authentic terms. 

Every approach to the oppressed by the elites, as a class, is couched in terms of 
the false generosity described in chapter 1 . But the revolutionary leaders cannot be 
falsely generous, nor can they manipulate. Whereas the oppressor elites flourish by 
trampling the people underfoot, the revolutionary leaders can flourish only in 
communion with the people. Thus it is that the activity of the oppressor cannot be 
humanist, while that of the revolutionary is necessarily so. 

The inhumanity of the oppressors and revolutionary human-ism both make use 
o/science. But science and technology at the service of the former are used to 
reduce men to the status of ‘things’; at the service of the latter, they are used to 
promote humanization. The oppressed must become Subjects of the latter process, 
however, lest they continue to be seen as mere objects of scientific interest. 

Scientific revolutionary humanism cannot, in the name of revolution, treat the 
oppressed as objects to be analysed and (based on that analysis) presented with 
prescriptions for be-haviour. To do this would be to fall into one of the myths of 
the oppressor ideology; the absolutizing of ignorance. This myth implies the 
existence of someone who decrees the ignorance of someone else. The one who is 
doing the decreeing defines him-self and the class to which he belongs as those 
who know or were born to know; he thereby defines others as alien entities. The 
words of his own class come to be the ‘true’ words, which he imposes or attempts 
to impose on the others: the oppressed, whose words have been stolen from them. 
Those who steal the words of others develop a deep doubt in the abilities of the 
others and consider them incompetent. Each time they say their word without 
hearing the word of those whom they have forbidden to speak, they grow more 
accustomed to power and acquire a taste for guiding, ordering, and commanding. 
They can no longer live without having someone to give orders to. Under these 
circumstances, dialogue is impossible. 

Scientific and humanist revolutionary leaders, on the other hand, cannot believe 
in the myth of the ignorance of the people. They do not have the right to doubt for 
a single moment that it is only a myth. They cannot believe that they, and only 
they, know anything - for this means to doubt the people. Although they may 
legitimately recognize themselves as having, due to their revolutionary 
consciousness, a level of revolutionary knowledge different from the level of 
empirical knowledge held by the people, they cannot impose themselves and their 
know-ledge on the people. They cannot sloganize the people, but must enter into 
dialogue with them, so that the people’s empirical knowledge of reality, nourished 



by the leader.;’ critical know-ledge, gradually becomes transformed into 
knowledge of the causes of reality. 

It would be naive to expect oppressor elites to denounce the myth which 
absolutizes the ignorance of the people; it would be a contradiction in terms if 
revolutionary leaders were not to do so, and more contradictory still were they to 
act in accordance with that myth. The task of revolutionary leaders is to pose as 
problems not only this myth, but all the other myths used by the oppressor elites to 
oppress. If, instead, revolutionary leaders persist in imitating the oppressors” 
methods of domination, the people may respond in either of two ways. In certain 
historical circumstances, they may become domesticated by the new contents 
which the leaders deposit in them. In other circumstances, they may become 
frightened by a ‘word’ which threatens the oppressor housed within them. In 
neither event do they become revolutionary. In the first case, the revolution is an 
illusion; in the second case, an impossibility. 

Some well-intentioned but misguided persons suppose that since the dialogical 
process is prolonged (which, incidentally, is not true), they ought to carry out the 
revolution without communication, by means of ‘communique’s, and that once the 
revolution is won, they will then develop a thoroughgoing educational effort. They 
further justify this procedure by saying that it is not possible to carry out education 
- liberating education - before taking power. 

It is worth analysing some fundamental points of the above assertions. These 
men (or most of them) believe in the necessity for dialogue with the people, but do 
not believe this dialogue is feasible prior to taking power. When they deny the 
possibility that the leaders can behave in a critically educational fashion before 
taking power, they deny the revolution’s educational quality as cultural action 
preparing to become Cultural Revolution. On the other .hand, they confuse cultural 
action with the new education to be inaugurated once power is taken. 

I have already affirmed that it would indeed be naive to expect the oppressor 
elites to carry out a liberating education. But because the revolution undeniably has 
an educational nature, in the sense that unless it liberates it is not revolution, the 
taking of power is only one moment - no matter how decisive - in the revolutionary 
process. As process, the ‘before’ of the revolution is located within the oppressor 
society and is apparent only to the revolutionary consciousness. 

The revolution is bom as a social entity within the oppressor society; to the 
extent that it is cultural action, it cannot fail to correspond to the potentialities of 
the social entity in which it originated. Every entity develops (or is transformed) 
within itself, through the interplay of its contradictions. External conditioners, 
while necessary, are effective only if they coincide with those potentialities. The 



newness of the revolution is generated within the old, oppressive society; the 
taking of power constitutes only a decisive moment of the continuing revolutionary 
process. In a dynamic, rather than static, view of revolution, there is no absolute 
‘before’ or ‘after’, with the taking of power as the dividing line. 

Originating in objective conditions, revolution seeks to supersede the situation 
of oppression by inaugurating a society of men in the process of continuing 
liberation. The educational, dialogical quality of revolution, which makes it a 
‘cultural revolution’ as well, must be present in all its stages. This educational 
quality is one of the most effective instruments for keeping the revolution from 
becoming institutionalized and stratified in a counter-revolutionary bureaucracy; 
for counter-revolution is carried out by revolutionaries who become reactionary. 

Were it not possible to dialogue with the people before power is taken, because 
they have no experience with dialogue, neither would it be possible for the people 
to come to power, for they are equally inexperienced in the use of power. The 
revolutionary process is dynamic, and it is in this continuing dynamics, in the 
praxis of the people with the revolutionary leaders, that the people and the leaders 
will learn both dialogue and the use of power. (This is as obvious as affirming that 
a man learns to swim in the water, not in a library.) 

Dialogue with the people is neither a concession nor a gift, much less a tactic to 
be used for domination. Dialogue, as the encounter among men to ‘name’ the 
world, is a fundamental precondition for their true humanization. In the words of 
Gajo Petrovic: 

A free action can only be one by which a man changes his world and himself.... 
A positive condition of freedom is the knowledge of the limits of necessity, the 
awareness of human creative possibilities..,. The struggle for a free society is not a 
struggle for a free society unless through it an ever greater degree of individual 
freedom is created. If this view be true, the revolutionary process is eminently 
educational in character. Thus the road to revolution involves openness to the 
people, not imperviousness to them; it involves communion with the people, not 
mistrust. And, as Lenin pointed out, the more a revolution requires theory, the 
more its leaders must be with the people in order to stand against the power of 
oppression. 

Based on these general propositions, let us undertake a more lengthy analysis of 
the theories of anti-dialogical and dialogical action. 


Conquest 

The first characteristic of anti-dialogical action is the necessity for conquest. The 
anti-dialogical man, in his relations with other men, aims at conquering them - 


increasingly and by every means, from the toughest to the most refined, from the 
most repressive to the most solicitous (paternalism). 

Every act of conquest implies a conqueror and someone or something which is 
conquered. The conqueror imposes his objectives on the vanquished, and makes 
them his possession. He imposes his own contours on the vanquished, who 
intemal-ize this shape and become ambiguous beings ‘housing’ another. From the 
first, the act of conquest, which reduces men to the status of things, is necrophilic. 

Just as anti-dialogical action is a concomitant of the real, concrete situation of 
oppression, dialogical action is indispens-able to the revolutionary supersedence of 
that situation. A man is not anti-dialogical or dialogical in the abstract, but in the 
world. He is not first anti-dialogical, then oppressor; he is both, simultaneously. 
Within an objective situation of oppression, anti-dialogue is necessary to the 
oppressor as a means of further oppression - not only economic, but cultural: the 
vanquished are dispossessed of their word, their expressiveness, their culture. 
Further, once a situation of oppression has been initiated, anti-dialogue becomes 
indispensable to its preservation. 

Because liberating action is dialogical in nature, dialogue can-not be a posteriori 
to that action, but must be concomitant with it. And since liberation must be a 
permanent condition, dialogue becomes a continuing aspect of liberating action. 

The desire for conquest (or rather the necessity of conquest) is at all times 
present in anti-dialogical action. To this end the oppressors attempt to destroy in 
men their quality as ‘considerers’ of the world. Since the oppressors cannot totally 
achieve this destruction, they must mythicize the world. In order to present for the 
consideration of the oppressed and subjugated a world of deceit designed to 
increase then- alienation and passivity, the oppressors develop a series of methods 
precluding any presentation of the world as a problem and showing it rather as a 
fixed entity, as something given - something to which men, as mere spectators, 
must adapt. 

It is necessary for the oppressors to approach the people in order to keep them 
passive via subjugation. This approxima-tion, however, does not involve being 
with the people, or require true communication. It is accomplished by the 
oppressors’ depositing myths indispensable to the preservation of the status quo: 
for example, the myth that the oppressive order is a ‘free society’; the myth that all 
men are free to work where they wish, that if they don’t like their boss they can 
leave him and look for another job; the myth that this order respects human rights 
and is therefore worthy of esteem; the myth that anyone who is industrious can 
become an entrepreneur - worse yet, the myth that the street vendor is as much an 
entrepreneur as the owner of a large factory; the myth of the universal right of 



education, when of all the Brazilian children who enter primary schools only a tiny 
fraction ever reach the university; the myth of the equality of all men, when the 
question: ‘Do you know who you’re talking to?’ is still current among us; the myth 
of the heroism of the oppressor classes as defenders of ‘Western Christian 
civilization’ against ‘materialist barbarism’; the myth of the charity and generosity 
of the elites, when what they really do as a class is to foster selective ‘good deeds’ 
(subse-quently elaborated into the myth of ‘disinterested aid’, which on the 
international level was severely criticized by Pope John XXIII); the myth that the 
dominant elites, ‘recognizing their duties’, promote the advancement of the people, 
so that the people, in a gesture of gratitude, should accept the words of the elites 
and conform to them; the myth that rebellion is a sin against God; the myth of 
private property as fundamental to personal human development (so long as 
oppressors are the only true human beings); the myth of the industriousness of the 
oppressors and the laziness and dishonesty of the oppressed, as well as the myth of 
the natural inferiority of the latter and the superiority of the former.” 

All these myths (and others the reader could list), the internalization of which is 
essential to the subjugation of the oppressed, are presented to them by well- 
organized propa-ganda and slogans, via the mass ‘communications’ media - as if 
such alienation constituted real communication! 

In sum, there is no oppressive reality which is not at the same time necessarily 
anti-dialogical, just as there is no anti-dialogue in which the oppressors do not 
untiringly dedicate themselves to the constant conquest of the oppressed. In ancient 
Rome, the dominant elites spoke of the need to give ‘bread and circuses’ to the 
people in order to ‘soften them up’ and to secure their own tranquillity. The 
dominant elites of today, like those of any epoch, continue (in a version of 
‘original sin’) to need to conquer others - with or without bread and circuses. The 
content and methods of conquest vary historically; what does not vary (as long as 
dominant elites exist) is the necrophilic passion to oppress. 


Divide and rule 

This is another fundamental dimension of the theory of oppressive action which 
is as old as oppression itself. As the oppressor minority subordinates and 
dominates the majority, it must divide it and keep it divided in order to remain in 
power. The minority cannot permit itself the luxury of tolerating the unification of 
the people, which would undoubtedly signify a serious threat to their own 
hegemony. Accordingly, the oppressors halt by any method (including violence) 
any action which even in incipient fashion could awaken the oppressed to the need 
for unity. Concepts such as unity, organization, and struggle, are immediately 


labelled as dangerous. In fact, of course, these concepts are dangerous - to the 
oppressors - for their realization is necessary to actions of liberation. 

It is in the interest of the oppressor to weaken the oppressed still further, to 
isolate them, to create and deepen rifts among them. This is done by varied means, 
from the repressive methods of the government bureaucracy to the forms of 
cultural action with which they manipulate the people by giving them the 
impression that they are being helped, 

One of the characteristics of oppressive cultural action which is almost never 
perceived by the dedicated but naive professionals who are involved is the 
emphasis on a focalized view of problems rather than on seeing them as 
dimensions of a totality. In ‘community development’ projects the more a region or 
area is broken down into ‘local communities’, without the study of these 
communities both as totalities in themselves and as parts of another totality (the 
area, region, and so forth) - which in its turn is part of a still larger totality (the 
nation, as part of the continental totality) - the more alienation is intensified. And 
the more alienated people are, the easier it is to divide them and keep them divided. 
These focalized forms of action, by intensifying the focalized way of life of the 
oppressed (especially in rural areas), hamper the oppressed from perceiving reality 
critically and keep them isolated from the problems of oppressed men in other 
areas. 

The same divisive effect occurs in connection with the so-called ‘leadership 
training courses, which are (although carried out without any such intention by 
many of their organizers) in the last analysis alienating. These courses are based on 
the naive assumption that one can promote the community by training its leaders - 
as if it were the parts that promote the whole and not the whole which, in being 
promoted, promotes the parts. Those members of the communities who show 
suf-ficient leadership capacities to be chosen for these courses necessarily reflect 
and express the aspirations of the individuals of their community. They are in 
harmony with the way of living and thinking about reality which characterizes 
their comrades, even though they reveal special abilities which give them the status 
of ‘leaders’. As soon as they complete the course and return to the community with 
resources they did not formerly possess, they either use these resources to control 
the submerged and dominated consciousness of their comrades, or they become 
strangers in their own communities and their former leadership position is thus 
threatened. In order not to lose their leadership status, they will probably tend to 
continue manipulating the community, but in a more efficient manner. 

When cultural action, as a totalized and totalizing process, approaches an entire 
community and not merely its leaders, the opposite process occurs. Either the 



former leaders grow along with everyone else, or they are replaced by new leaders 
who emerge as a result of the new social consciousness of the com-munity. 

The oppressors do not favour promoting the community as a whole, but rather 
selected leaders. The latter course, by preserving a state of alienation, hinders the 
emergence of consciousness and critical intervention in a total reality. And without 
this critical intervention, it is always difficult to achieve the unity of the oppressed 
as a class. 

Class conflict is another concept which upsets the oppressors, since they do not 
wish to consider themselves an oppressive class. Unable to deny, try as they may, 
the existence of social classes, they preach the need for understanding and 
harmony between those who buy and those who are obliged to sell their labour. 
However, the unconceivable antagonism which exists between the two classes 
makes this ‘harmony’ impossible. The elites call for harmony between classes as if 
classes were fortuitous agglomerations of individuals curiously looking at a shop 
window on a Sunday afternoon. The only harmony which is viable and 
demonstrable is that found among the oppressors themselves. Although they may 
diverge and upon occasion even clash over group interests, they unite immediately 
at a threat to the class. Similarly, the harmony of the oppressed is only possible 
when its members are engaged in the struggle for liberation. Only in exceptional 
cases is it not only possible but necessary for both classes to unite and act in 
harmony; but when the emergency which united them has passed they will return 
to the contradiction which defines their existence and which never really 
disappeared. 

All the actions of the dominant class manifest its need to divide in order to 
facilitate the preservation of the oppressor state. Its interference in the unions, 
favouring certain ‘representatives’ of the dominated classes (who actually 
represent the oppressor, not their own comrades); its promotion of individuals who 
reveal leadership capacity and could signify a threat if they were not ‘softened up’ 
in this way; its distribution of benefits to some and penalties to others: all these are 
ways of dividing in order to preserve the system which favours the elite. They are 
forms of action which exploit, directly or indirectly, one of the weak points of the 
oppressed: their basic insecurity. The oppressed are insecure in their duality as 
beings which ‘house’ the oppressor. On the one hand, they resist him; on the other 
hand, at a certain stage in their relationship, they are attracted by him. Under these 
circumstances, the oppressors easily obtain positive results from divisive action. 

In addition, the oppressed know from experience the price of not accepting an 
invitation offered with the purpose of preventing their unity as a class: losing their 
jobs and finding their names on a ‘black list’ signifying closed doors to other jobs 
is the least that can happen. Their basic insecurity is thus directly linked to the 



enslavement of their labour (which really implies the enslavement of their person, 
as Bishop Spilt emphasized). 

Men are fulfilled only to the extent that they create their world (which is a 
human world), and create it with their transforming labour. The fulfilment of men 
as men lies, then, in the fulfilment of the world. If for men to be in the world of 
work is to be totally dependent, insecure, and permanently threatened - if their 
work does not belong to them - men cannot be fulfilled. Work which is not free 
ceases to be a fulfilling pursuit and becomes an effective means of 
dehumanization. 

Every move by the oppressed towards unity points towards other actions; it 
means that sooner or later the oppressed will perceive their state of 
depersonalization and discover that as long as they are divided they will always be 
easy prey for manipulation and domination. Unity and organization can enable 
them to change their weakness into a transforming force with which they can re- 
create the world, making it more human. The more human world to which they 
justly aspire, however, is the antithesis of the ‘human world’ of the oppressors - a 
world which is the exclusive possession of the oppressors, who preach an 
impossible harmony between themselves (who dehumanize) and the oppressed 
(who are dehumanized). Since oppressors and oppressed are antithetical, what 
serves the interests of one group is opposed to the interests of the other. 

Dividing in order to preserve the status quo, then, is neces-sarily a fundamental 
objective of the theory of anti-dialogical action. In addition, the dominators try to 
present themselves as saviours of the men they dehumanize and divide. This 
messianism, however, cannot conceal their true intention: to save them-selves. 
They want to save their riches, their power, their way of life: the things that enable 
them to subjugate others. Their mis-take is that men cannot save themselves (no 
matter how one understands ‘salvation’), either as individuals or as an oppres-sor 
class. Salvation can be achieved only with others. To the extent, however, that the 
elites oppress, they cannot be with the oppressed; for being against them is the 
essence of oppression. 

A psychoanalysis of oppressive action might reveal the ‘false generosity’ of the 
oppressor (described in chapter 1) as a dimension of the latter’s sense of guilt. 
With this false generosity, he attempts not only to preserve an unjust and 
necrophilic order, but to ‘buy’ peace for himself. It happens that peace cannot be 
bought; peace is experienced in solidarity and loving acts, which cannot be 
incarnated in oppression. Hence, the messianic element in the theory of anti- 
dialogical action reinforces the first characteristic of this action: the necessity for 
conquest. 



Since it is necessary to divide the people in order to preserve the status quo and, 
thereby, the power of the dominators, it is essential for the oppressors to keep the 
oppressed from per-ceiving their strategy. So the former must convince the latter 
that they are being ‘defended* against the demonic action of ‘marginal, rowdies 
and enemies of God’ (for these are the epithets directed at men who lived and are 
living the brave pursuit of man’s humanization). In order to divide and confuse the 
people, the destroyers call themselves builders, and accuse the true builders of 
being destructive. History, however, always takes it upon itself to modify these 
designations. Today, although the official terminology continues to call Tiradentes 
a conspirator (‘ Inconfidente ’) and the libertarian movement which he led a 
conspiracy (‘ Inconfidencia ’), the national hero is not the man who called 
Tiradentes a ‘bandit’, ordered him hanged and quartered, and had pieces of the 
bloody corpse strewn through the streets of the neighbouring villages as an 
example. Tiradentes is the hero. History tore up the ‘title’ given him by the elites, 
and recognized his action for what it was. It is the men who in their own time 
sought unity for liberation who are the heroes - not those who used their power to 
divide and rule. 


Manipulation 

Manipulation is another dimension of the theory of anti-dialogical action, and, 
like the strategy of division, is an instru-ment of conquest: the objective around 
which all the dimensions of the theory revolve. By means of manipulation, the 
dominant elites try to make the masses conform to their objectives. And the greater 
the political immaturity of these people (rural or urban) the more easily they can be 
manipulated by those who do not wish to lose their power. 

The people are manipulated by the series of myths described earlier in this 
chapter, and by yet another myth: the model of itself the bourgeoisie presents to the 
people which spells out possibility for their own ascent. In order for these myths to 
function, however, the people must accept the word of the bourgeoisie. 

Within certain historical conditions, manipulation is accomplished by means of 
pacts between the dominant and the dominated classes - pacts which, if considered 
superficially, might give the impression of a dialogue between the classes. In 
reality, however, these pacts are not dialogue, because their true objectives are 
determined by the unequivocal interest of the dominant elites. In the last analysis, 
pacts are used by the dominators to achieve their own ends. The support given by 
the people to the so-called ‘national bourgeoisie’ in defence of so-called ‘national- 
capitalism’ is an example in point. Sooner or later, these pacts always increase the 
subjugation of the people. They are proposed only when the people begin (even 


naively) to emerge from this historical process and by this emergence to threaten 
the dominant elites. The presence of the people in the historical process, no longer 
as mere spectators, but with the first signs of aggressiveness, is sufficiently 
disquieting to frighten the dominant elites into doubling the tactics of 
manipulation. 

In this historical phase, manipulation becomes a fundamental instrument for the 
preservation of domination. Prior to the emergence of the people there is no 
manipulation (precisely speaking), but rather total suppression. When the 
oppressed are almost completely submerged in reality, it is unnecessary to 
manipulate them. In the anti-dialogical theory of action, mani-pulation is the 
response of the oppressor to the new concrete conditions of the historical process. 
Through manipulation, the dominant elites can lead the people into an unauthentic 
type of ‘organization’, and can thus avoid the threatening alternative: the true 
organization of the emerged and emerging people. 

The latter have only two possibilities as they enter the historical process: either 
they must organize authentically for their liberation, or they will be manipulated by 
the elites. Authentic organization is obviously not going to be stimulated by the 
dominators; it is the task of the revolutionary leaders. 

It happens, however, that large sectors of the oppressed form an urban 
proletariat, especially in the more industrialized centres of the country, Although 
these sectors are occasionally restive, they lack revolutionary consciousness and 
consider themselves privileged. Manipulation, with its series of deceits and 
promises, usually finds fertile ground here. 

The antidote to manipulation lies in a critically conscious revolutionary 
organization, which will pose as problems to the people their position in the 
historical process, the national reality, and manipulation itself. In the words of 
Francisco Weffert: 

All the policies of the Left are based on the masses and depend on the 
consciousness of the latter. If that consciousness is confused, the Left will lose its 
roots and certain downfall will be imminent, although (as in the Brazilian case) the 
Left may be deluded into thinking it can achieve the revolution by means of a 
quick return to power. In a situation of manipulation, the Left is almost always 
tempted by a ‘quick return to power’, forgetting the necessity of joining with the 
oppressed to forge an organization, and thus straying into an impossible ‘dialogue’ 
with the dominant elites. It ends by being manipulated by these elites, and not 
infrequently itself falls into an elitist game, which it calls ‘realism’. 

Manipulation, like the conquest whose objectives it serves, attempts to 
anaesthetize the people so they will not think. For if the people join to their 



presence in the historical process critical thinking about that process, the threat of 
their emergence materializes in revolution. Whether one calls this correct thinking 
‘revolutionary consciousness’ or ‘class consciousness’, it is an indispensable 
precondition of revolution. The dominant elites are so well aware of this fact that 
they instinctively use all means, including physical violence, to keep the people 
from thinking. They have a shrewd intuition of the ability of dialogue to develop a 
capacity for criticism. While some revolutionary leaders consider dialogue with the 
people a ‘bourgeois and ‘reactionary’ activity, the bourgeoisie regard dialogue 
between the oppressed and the revolutionary leaders as a very real danger to be 
avoided. 

One of the methods of manipulation is to inoculate individ-uals with the 
bourgeois appetite for personal success. This manipulation is sometimes carried 
out directly by the elites and sometimes indirectly, through populist leaders. As 
Weffert points out, these leaders serve as intermediaries between the oligarchic 
elites and the people. The emergence of populism as a style of political action thus 
coincides causally with the emergence of the oppressed. The populist leader who 
rises from this process is an ambiguous being, an ‘amphibian’ who lives in two 
elements. Shuttling back and forth between the people and the dominant 
oligarchies, he bears the marks of both groups. 

Since the populist leader simply manipulates, instead of fighting for authentic 
popular organization, this type of leader serves the revolution little if at all. Only 
by abandoning his ambiguous character and dual action and by opting decisively 
for the people (thus ceasing to be populist) does he renounce manipulation and 
dedicate himself to the revolutionary task of organization. At this point he ceases 
to be an intermediary between the people and the elites, and becomes a 
contradiction of the latter; thereupon the elites immediately join forces to curb him. 
Observe the dramatic and finally unequivocal terms in which Getulio Vargas” 
spoke to the workers at a 1 May celebration during his last period as head of state: 

I want to tell you that the gigantic work of renewal which my Administration is 
beginning to carry out cannot be completed successfully without the support and 
the daily, steadfast cooperation of the workers. 

Vargas then spoke of his first ninety days in office, which he called ‘an estimate 
of the difficulties and obstacles which, here and there, are being raised in 
opposition to the actions of the government’. He spoke directly to the people about 
how deeply he felt ‘the helplessness, poverty, the high cost of living, low salaries... 
the hopelessness of the unfortunate and the demands of the majority who live in 
hope of better days’. 



His appeal to the workers, in the same speech, then took on more objective 
tones: 

I have come to say that at this moment the Administration does not yet have the 
laws or the concrete instruments for immediate action to defend the people’s 
economy. It is thus necessary for the people to organize - not only to defend their 
own interests, but also to give the government the base of support it requires to 
carry out its objectives ... I need your unity. I need you, in solidarity, to organize 
yourselves in unions. I need you to form a strong and cohesive bloc to stand beside 
the government so that it will have all the force it needs to solve your problems. I 
need your unity so you can fight against saboteurs, so you do not fall prey to the 
interests of speculators and rapacious scoundrels in detriment of the interests of 
the people.... The hour has come to appeal to the workers; unite in your unions as 
free and organized forces ... at the present time no administration can survive or 
dispose of sufficient force to achieve its social ends if it does not have the support 
of the labouring organizations. 

In sum, Vargas in this speech appealed vehemently to the people to organize and 
to unite in defence of their rights; and he told them, as Chief of State, of the 
obstacles, the hindrances, and the innumerable difficulties involved in governing 
with them. From that moment on his administration encountered increasing 
difficulties, until the tragic climax of August 1954. If Vargas had not in his last 
term shown such open encouragement to the organization of the people, 
subsequently linked to a series of measures in defence of the national interest, 
possibly the reactionary elites would not have taken the extreme measures they did. 

Any populist leader who moves (even discreetly) towards the people in any way 
other than as the intermediary of the oligarchies will be curbed by the latter - if 
they have sufficient force to stop him. But as long as the leader restricts himself to 
pater-nalism and social welfare activities, although there may be occasional 
divergences between him and groups of oligarchies whose interests have been 
touched, deep differences are rare. This is because welfare programmes as 
instruments of manipulation ultimately serve the end of conquest. They act as an 
anaesthetic, distracting the oppressed from the true causes of their problems and 
from the concrete solutions of these problems. They splinter the oppressed into 
groups of individuals hoping to get a few more benefits for themselves. This 
situation contains, however, a positive element: the individuals who receive some 
aid always want more; those who do not receive aid, seeing the example of those 
who do, grow envious and also want assistance. Since the dominant elites cannot 
‘aid’ everyone, they end by increasing the restiveness of the oppressed. 



The revolutionary leaders should take advantage of the contradictions of 
manipulation by posing it as a problem to the oppressed, with the objective of 
organizing them. 


Cultural invasion 

The theory of anti-dialogical action has one last fundamental characteristic: 
cultural invasion, which like divisive tactics and manipulation also serves the ends 
of conquest. In this phenomenon, the invaders penetrate the cultural context of 
another group, and ignoring the potential of the latter, they impose their own view 
of the world upon those they invade and inhibit the creativity of the invaded by 
curbing their expression. 

Whether urbane or harsh, cultural invasion is thus always an act of violence 
against the persons of the invaded culture, who lose their originality or face the 
threat of losing it. In cultural invasion (as in all the modalities of anti-dialogical 
action) the invaders are the authors of, and actors in, the process; those they invade 
are the objects. The invaders mould; those they invade are moulded. The invaders 
choose; those they invade follow that choice - or are expected to follow it. The 
invaders act; those they invade have only the illusion of acting, through the action 
of the invaders. 

All domination involves invasion - at times physical and overt, at times 
camouflaged, with the invader assuming the role of a helping friend. In the last 
analysis, invasion is a form of economic and cultural domination. Invasion may be 
practised by a metropolitan society upon a dependent society, or it may be implicit 
in the domination of one class over another within the same society. 

Cultural conquest leads to the cultural inauthenticity of those who are invaded; 
they begin to respond to the values, the standards, and the goals of the invaders. In 
their passion to dominate, to mould others to their patterns and their way of life, 
the invaders desire to know how those they have invaded apprehend reality - but 
only so that they can dominate the latter more effectively. In cultural invasion it is 
essential that those who are invaded come to see their reality with the outlook of 
the invaders rather than their own; for the more they mimic the invaders, the more 
stable the position of the latter becomes. 

For cultural invasion to succeed, it is essential that those invaded become 
convinced of their intrinsic inferiority. Since everything has its opposite, if those 
who are invaded consider themselves inferior, they must necessarily recognize the 
super-iority of the invaders. The values of the latter thereby become the pattern for 
the former. The more invasion is accentuated and those invaded are alienated from 


the spirit of their own culture and from themselves, the more the latter want to be 
like the invaders: to walk like them, dress like them, talk like them. 

The social ‘I’ of the invaded person, like every social ‘I’, is formed in the socio- 
cultural relations of the social structure, and therefore reflects the duality of the 
invaded culture. This duality (which was described earlier) explains why invaded 
and domin-ated individuals, at a certain moment of their existential experience, 
almost ‘adhere’ to the oppressor ‘Thou’. The oppressed T must break with this 
near adhesion to the oppressor ‘Thou’, drawing away from the latter in order to see 
him more objectively, at which point he critically recognizes himself to be in 
contradiction with the oppressor. In so doing, he ‘considers’ as a dehumanizing 
reality the structure in which he is being oppressed. This qualitative change in the 
perception of the world can only be achieved in the praxis. 

Cultural invasion is on the one hand an instrument of dom-ination, and on the 
other, the result of domination. Thus, cul-tural action of a dominating character 
(like other forms of anti-dialogical action), in addition to being deliberate and 
planned, is in another sense simply a product of oppressive reality. 

For example, a rigid and oppressive social structure neces-sarily influences the 
institutions of child rearing and education within that structure. These institutions 
pattern their action after the style of the structure, and transmit the myths of the 
latter. Homes and schools (from nurseries to universities) exist not in the abstract, 
but in time and space. Within the structures of domination they function largely as 
agencies which prepare the invaders of the future. 

The parent-child relationship in the home usually reflects the objective cultural 
conditions of the surrounding social struc-ture. If the conditions which penetrate 
the home are authoritarian, rigid, and dominating, the home will increase the 
climate of oppression. As these authoritarian relations between parents and 
children intensify,” children in their infancy increasingly internalize the paternal 
authority. 

Presenting (with his customary clarity) the problem of necrophilia and biophilia, 
Fromm analyses the objective con-ditions which generate each condition, whether 
in the home (parent-child relations in a climate of indifference and oppres-sion or 
of love and freedom), or in a socio-cultural context. If children reared in an 
atmosphere of lovelessness and oppression, children whose potency has been 
frustrated, do not manage during their youth to take the path of authentic rebellion, 
they will either drift into total indifference, alienated from reality by the authorities 
and the myths the fatter have used to ‘shape’ them; or they may engage in forms of 
destructive action. 



The home atmosphere is continued in the school, where the students soon 
discover (as in the home) that in order to achieve some satisfaction they must adapt 
to the precepts which have been set from above. One of these precepts is not to 
think. 

Internalizing parental authority through the rigid relationship structure 
emphasized by the school, these young people tend when they become 
professionals (because of the very fear of freedom instilled by these relationships) 
to repeat the rigid patterns in which they were miseducated. This phenomenon, in 
addition to their class position, perhaps explains why so many professionals adhere 
to anti-dialogical action. Whatever the specialty that brings them into contact with 
the people, they are almost unshakeably convinced that it is their mission to ‘give’ 
the latter their knowledge and techniques. They see themselves as ‘promoters’ of 
the people. Their programmes of action (which might have been prescribed by any 
good theorist of oppressive action) include their own objectives, their own 
con-victions, and their own preoccupations. They do not listen to the people, but 
instead plan to teach them how to ‘cast off the laziness which creates 
underdevelopment’. To these profes-sionals, it seems absurd to consider the 
necessity of respecting the ‘view of the world’ held by the people. The 
professionals are the ones with a ‘world view’. They regard as equally absurd the 
affirmation that one must necessarily consult the people when organizing the 
programme content of educational action. They feel that the ignorance of the 
people is so complete that they are unfit for anything except to receive the 
teachings of the professionals. 

When, however, at a certain point of their existential experience, those who have 
been invaded begin in one way or another to reject this invasion (to which they 
might earlier have adapted), the professionals, in order to justify their failure, say 
that the members of the invaded group are ‘inferior’ because they are ‘ingrates’, 
‘shiftless’, ‘diseased’, or of ‘mixed blood’. 

Well-intentioned professionals (those who use ‘invasion’ not as deliberate 
ideology but as the expression of their own up-bringing) eventually discover that 
certain of their educational failures must be ascribed, not to the intrinsic inferiority 
of the ‘simple men of the people’, but to the violence of their own act of invasion. 
Those who make this discovery face a difficult alternative: they feel the need to 
renounce invasion, but patterns of domination are so entrenched within them that 
this renunciation would become a threat to their own identities. To renounce 
invasion would mean ending their dual status as dominated and dominators. It 
would mean abandoning all the myths which nourish invasion, and starting to 
incarnate dialogical action. For this very reason, it would mean to cease being over 
or inside (as foreigners) in order to be with (as comrades). And so the fear of 



freedom takes hold of these men. During this traumatic process, they naturally tend 
to rationalize their fear with a series of evasions. 

The fear of freedom is greater still in professionals who have not yet discovered 
for themselves the invasive nature of their action, and who are told that their action 
is dehumanizing. Not infrequently, especially at the point of decoding concrete 
situa-tions, participants in our training course ask the coordinator in an irritated 
manner: ‘Where do you think you’re steering us, anyway?’ The coordinator isn’t 
trying to ‘steer’ them anywhere; it is just that in facing a concrete situation as a 
problem, the participants begin to realize that if their analysis of the situation goes 
any deeper they will either have to divest them-selves of their myths, or reaffirm 
them. Divesting themselves of and renouncing their myths represents, at that 
moment, an act of self-violence. On the other hand, to reaffirm those myths is to 
reveal themselves. As I explain in Introduction a la Action Cultural, the only way 
out (which functions as a defence mech-anism) is to project onto the coordinator 
their own usual practices: steering, conquering, and invading. 

This same retreat occurs, though on a smaller scale, among men of the people 
who have been ground down by the concrete situation of oppression and 
domesticated by charity. One of the teachers of Full Circle, which carried out a 
valuable edu-cational programme in New York City under the coordination of 
Robert Fox, relates the following incident. A group in a New York ghetto was 
presented a coded situation showing a big pile of garbage on a street comer - the 
very same street where the group was meeting. One of the participants said at once, 
‘I see a street in Africa or Latin America.’ ‘And why not in New York?’ asked the 
teacher. ‘Because we are the United States and that can’t happen here.’ Beyond a 
doubt this man and some of his comrades who agreed with him were retreating 
from a reality so offensive to them that even to acknowledge that reality was 
threatening. For an alienated person, conditioned by a culture of achievement and 
personal success, to recognize his situation as objectively unfavourable seems to 
hinder his own possibilities of success. 

In the case cited, and in that of the professionals, the deter-mining force of the 
culture which develops the myths .men subsequently internalize is evident. In both 
cases, the culture of the dominant class hinders the affirmation of men as beings of 
decision. Neither the professionals nor the discussion participants in the New York 
slums talk and act for themselves as active Subjects of this historical process. None 
of them are theoreticians or ideologues of domination. On the contrary, they are 
effects which in turn become causes of domination. This is one of the most serious 
problems the revolution must confront when it reaches power. This stage demands 
maximum political wisdom, decision, and courage from the leaders, who for this 



very reason must have sufficient judgement not to fall into irrationally sectarian 
positions. 

Professional men of any discipline, university graduates or not, are men who 
have been ‘determined from above’ by a culture of domination which has 
constituted them as dual beings. (If they had come from the lower classes this 
miseducation would be the same, if not worse.) These professionals, however, are 
necessary to the reorganization of the new society. And since many among them - 
even though ‘afraid of freedom’ and reluctant to engage in humanizing action - are 
in truth more misguided than anything else, they not only could be, but ought to be, 
reclaimed by the revolution. 

This reclamation requires that the revolutionary leaders, progressing from what 
was previously dialogical cultural action, initiate the ‘cultural revolution’. At this 
point, revolutionary power moves beyond its role as a necessary obstacle 
confronting those who wish to negate men, and assumes a new and bolder position, 
with a clear invitation to all who wish to participate in the reconstruction of 
society. In this sense, ‘cultural revolution’ is a necessary continuation of the 
dialogical cultural action which must be carried out before the revolution reaches 
power. 

‘Cultural revolution’ takes the total society to be reconstructed, including all 
human activities, as the object of its remoulding action. Society cannot be 
reconstructed in a mechanistic fashion; the culture which is culturally re-created 
through revolution is the fundamental instrument for this reconstruction. ‘Cultural 
revolution’ is the revolutionary regime’s maximum effort at conscientization - it 
should reach everyone, regardless of his task. 

Consequently, this effort at conscientization cannot rest content with the 
technical or scientific training of intended specialists. The new society becomes 
qualitatively distinct from the old in more than a partial way. Revolutionary society 
cannot attribute to technology the same ends attributed by the previous society; 
accordingly, the training of men in the two societies must also differ. Technical 
and scientific training need not be inimical to humanistic education as long as 
science and technology in the revolutionary society are at the service of permanent 
liberation, of humanization. 

From this point of view, the training of men for any occupa-tion (since all 
occupations occur in time and space) requires the understanding of, firstly, culture 
as a superstructure which can maintain ‘remnants’ of the past, as Althusser puts it, 
alive in the substructure undergoing revolutionary transformation and, secondly, 
the occupation itself as an instrument for the transformation of culture. As the 
Cultural Revolution deepens conscientization in the creative praxis of the new 



society, men will begin to perceive why mythical remnants of the old society 
survive in the new. And men will then be able to free themselves more rapidly of 
these spectres, which by hindering the edifica-tion of a new society have always 
constituted a serious problem for every revolution. Through these cultural 
remnants the oppressor society continues to invade - this time invading the 
revolutionary society itself. 

This invasion is especially terrible because it is carried out not by the dominant 
elite reorganized as such, but by men who have participated in the revolution. As 
men who ‘house’ the oppressor, they resist as might the latter themselves the 
further basic steps which the revolution must take. And as dual beings they also 
accept (still due to the remnants of old feeling) power which becomes 
bureaucratized and which violently represses them. In turn, this violently 
repressive bureaucratic power can be explained by what Althusser calls the 
‘reactivation of old elements’ in the new society each time special circumstances 
permit. 

For all the above reasons, I interpret the revolutionary process as dialogical 
cultural action which is prolonged in ‘cultural revolution’ once power is taken. In 
both stages a serious and profound effort at conscientization is necessary. It is the 
neces-sary means by which men, through a true praxis, leave behind the status of 
objects to assume the status of historical Subjects. 

Finally, Cultural Revolution develops the practice of permanent dialogue 
between leaders and people, and consolidates the participation of the people in 
power. In this way, as both leaders and people continue their critical activity, the 
revolution will more easily be able to defend itself against bureaucratic tendencies 
(which lead to new forms of oppression) and against ‘invasion’ (which is always 
the same). The invader - whether in a bourgeois or in a revolutionary society - may 
be an agronomist or a sociologist, an economist or a public health engineer, a priest 
or a pastor, an educator or a social worker - or a revolutionary. 

Cultural invasion, which serves the ends of conquest and the preservation of 
oppression, always involves a parochial view of reality, a static perception of the 
world, and the imposition of one world view upon another. It implies the 
‘superiority’ of the invader and the ‘inferiority’ of those who are invaded, as well 
as the imposition of values by the former, who possess the latter and are afraid of 
losing them. 

Cultural invasion further signifies that the ultimate seat of decision regarding the 
action of those who are invaded lies not with them but with the invaders. And 
when the power of decision is located outside rather than within the one who 
should decide, the latter has only the illusion of deciding. This is why there can be 



no socio-economic development in a dual, ‘reflex’, invaded society. For 
development to occur it is necessary: firstly that there be a movement of search and 
creativity having its seat of decision in the searcher; secondly that this movement 
occur not only in space, but in the existential time of the conscious searcher. 

Thus, while all development is transformation, not all trans-formation is 
development. The transformation occurring in a seed which under favourable 
conditions germinates and sprouts is not development. In the same way, the 
transformation of an animal is not development. The transformations of seeds and 
animals are determined by the species to which they belong; and they occur in a 
time which does not belong to them, for time belongs to men. 

Men, among the uncompleted beings, are the only ones which develop. As 
historical, autobiographical, ‘beings for themselves’, their transformation 
(development) occur in their own existential time, never outside it. Men who are 
submitted to concrete conditions of oppression in which they become alien-ated 
‘beings for another* of the false ‘being for himself on whom they depend, are not 
able to develop authentically. Deprived of their own power of decision, which is 
located in the oppressor, they follow the prescriptions of the latter. The oppressed 
only begin to develop when, surmounting the con-tradiction in which they are 
caught, they become ‘beings for themselves’. 

If we consider society as a being, it is obvious that only a society which is a 
‘being for itself can develop. Societies which are dual, ‘reflex’, invaded, and 
dependent on the metropolitan society cannot develop because they are alienated; 
their political, economic, and cultural decision-making power is located outside 
themselves, in the invader society. In the last analysis, the latter determines the 
destiny of the former: mere transformation; for it is their transformation - not their 
development - that is in the interest of the metropolitan society. 

It is essential not to confuse moderni z ation with develop-ment. The former, 
although it may affect certain groups in the ‘satellite society’, is almost always 
induced; and it is the metropolitan society which derives the true benefits there 
from. A society which is merely modernized without developing will continue - 
even if it takes over some minimal delegated powers of decision to depend on the 
outside country. This is the fate of any dependent society, as long as it remains 
dependent. 

In order to determine whether or not a society is developing, one must go 
beyond criteria based on indices of per capita income (which, expressed in 
statistical form, are misleading) as well as those which concentrate on the study of 
gross income. The basic, elementary criterion is whether or not the society is a 



‘being for itself. If it is not, the other criteria indicate modernization rather than 
development. 

The principal contradiction of dual societies is the relation-ship of dependency 
between them and the metropolitan society. Once the contradiction has been 
superseded, the transformation hitherto effected through ‘aid’, which has primarily 
benefited the metropolitan society, becomes true development, which benefits the 
‘being for itself. 

For the above reasons, the purely reformist solutions at-tempted by these 
societies (even though some of the reforms may frighten and even panic the more 
reactionary members of the elite groups) do not resolve their external and internal 
con-tradictions. Almost always the metropolitan society induces these reformist 
solutions in response to the demands of the historical process, as a new way of 
preserving its hegemony. It is as if the metropolitan society were saying: ‘Let us 
carry out reforms before the people carry out a revolution. ’ And in order to achieve 
this goal, the metropolitan society has no options other than conquest, 
manipulation, economic and cul-tural (and sometimes military) invasion of the 
dependent society-an invasion in which the elite leaders of the dominated society 
to a large extent act as mere brokers for the leaders of the metropolitan society. 

To close this tentative analysis of the theory of anti-dialogical action, I wish to 
reaffirm that revolutionary leaders must not use the same anti-dialogical 
procedures used by the oppressors; on the contrary, revolutionary leaders must 
follow the path of dialogue and of communication. 

Before proceeding to analyse the theory of dialogical action, it is essential to 
discuss briefly how the revolutionary leadership group is formed, and some of the 
historical and sociological consequences for the revolutionary process. Usually this 
leader-ship group is made up of men who in one way or another have belonged to 
the social strata of the dominators at a certain point in their existential experience, 
under certain historical conditions, these men renounce the class to which they 
belong and join the oppressed, in an act of true solidarity (or so one would hope). 
Whether or not this adherence results from a scientific analysis of reality, it 
represents (when authentic) an act of love and true commitment. Joining the 
oppressed requires going to them and communicating with them. The people must 
find themselves in the emerging leaders, and the latter must find themselves in the 
people. 

The leaders who have emerged necessarily reflect the contradiction of the 
dominant elites communicated to them by the oppressed, who may not yet, 
however, clearly perceive their own state of oppression or critically recognize their 
relationship of antagonism to the oppressors. They may still be in the position 



previously termed ‘adhesion’ to the oppressor. On the other hand, it is possible that 
due to certain objective historical conditions they have already reached a relatively 
clear percep-tion of their state of oppression. 

In the first case, the adhesion - or partial adhesion - of the people to the 
oppressor makes it impossible for them (to repeat Fanon’s point) to locate him 
outside themselves. In the second case, they can locate the oppressor and can thus 
critically recognize their relationship of antagonism to him. 

In the first case, the oppressor is ‘housed’ within the people, and their resulting 
ambiguity makes them fearful of freedom. They resort (stimulated by the 
oppressor) to magical explanations or a false view of God, to whom they 
fatalistically transfer the responsibility for their oppressed state. It is extremely 
unlikely that these self-mistrustful, downtrodden, hopeless people will seek their 
own liberation-an act of rebellion which they may view as a disobedient violation 
of the will of God, as an unwarranted confrontation with destiny. (Hence the oft- 
emphasized necessity of posing as problems the myths fed to the people by the 
oppressors.) In the second case, when the people have reached a relatively clear 
picture of oppression which leads them to localize the oppressor outside 
themselves, they take up the struggle to surmount the contradiction in which they 
are caught. At this moment they overcome the distance between ‘class necessity’ 
and ‘class consciousness’. 

In the first case, the revolutionary leaders unfortunately and involuntarily 
become the contradiction of the people. In the second case, the emerging leaders 
receive from the people sympathetic and almost instantaneous support, which tends 
to increase during the process of revolutionary action. The leaders go to the people 
in a spontaneously dialogical manner. There is an almost immediate empathy 
between the people and the revolutionary leaders: their mutual commitment is 
almost instantly sealed. In fellowship, they consider themselves co-equal 
contradictions of the dominant elites. From this point on the established practice of 
dialogue between people and leaders, is nearly unshakeable. That dialogue will 
continue when power is reached; and the people will know that they have come to 
power. 

This sharing in no way diminishes the spirit of struggle, courage, capacity for 
love, or daring required of the revolutionary leaders. Fidel Castro and his comrades 
(whom many at the time termed ‘irresponsible adventurers’), an eminently 
dialogi-cal leadership group, identified with the people who endured the brutal 
violence of the Batista dictatorship. This adherence was not easy; it required 
bravery on the part of the leaders to; love the people sufficiently to be willing to 
sacrifice themselves for them. It required courageous witness by the leaders to 
recommence after each disaster, moved by undying hope in a future victory which 



(because fogged together with the people) would belong not to the leaders alone, 
but to the leaders and the people - or to the people, including the leaders. 

Fidel gradually polarized the adherence of the Cuban people, who due to their 
historical experience had already begun to break their adhesion to the oppressor. 
This ‘drawing away’ from the oppressor led the people to objectify him, and to see 
themselves as his contradiction. So it was that Fidel never entered into 
contradiction with the people. (The occasional desertions or betrayals registered by 
Guevara in his Relate de la Guerra Revolucionaria - in which he also refers to the 
many who adhered - were to be expected.) 

Thus, due to certain historical conditions, the movement by the revolutionary 
leaders to the people is either horizontal - so that leaders and people form one body 
in contradiction to the oppressor - or it is triangular, with the revolutionary leaders 
occupying the vertex of the triangle in contradiction to the, oppressors and to the 
oppressed as well. As we have seen, the latter situation is forced on the leaders 
when the people have not yet achieved a critical perception of oppressive reality. 

Almost never, however, does a revolutionary leadership group perceive that it 
constitutes a contradiction to the people. Indeed, this perception is painful, and the 
resistance may serve as a defence mechanism. After all, it is not easy for leaders 
who have emerged through adherence to the oppressed to recognize themselves as 
being in contradiction to those to whom they adhered. It is important to recognize 
this reluctance when analysing certain forms of behaviour on the part of 
revolutionary leaders who involuntarily become a contradiction (although not 
antagonists) of the people. 

In order to carry out the revolution, revolutionary leaders undoubtedly require 
the adherence of the people. When leaders who constitute a contradiction to the 
people seek this adherence, and find rather certain aloofness and mistrust, they 
often regard this reaction as indicating an inherent defect on the part of the people. 
They interpret a certain historical moment of the people’s consciousness as 
evidence of their intrinsic deficiency. Since the leaders need the adherence of the 
people so that the revolution can be achieved (but at the same time mistrust the 
mistrustful people), they are tempted to utilize the same procedures used by the 
dominant elites to oppress. Rationalizing their lack of confidence in the people, the 
leaders say that it is impossible to dialogue with the people before taking power, 
thus opting for the anti-dialogical theory of action. Thence-forward just like the 
dominant elites - they try to conquer the people: they become messianic; they use 
manipulation and carry out cultural invasion. By advancing along these paths, the 
paths of oppression, they will not achieve revolution; or if they do, it will not be 
authentic revolution. 



The role of revolutionary leadership (under any circumstances, but especially so 
in those described) is to consider seriously, even as they act, the reasons for any 
attitude of mistrust on the part of the people, and to seek out true avenues of 
communion with them, ways of helping the people to help themselves critically 
perceive the reality which oppresses them. 

The dominated consciousness is dual, ambiguous, and full of fear and mistrust. 
In his Diary about the struggle in Bolivia, Guevara refers several times to the lack 
of peasant participation: 

The peasant mobilization does not exist, except for informative duties which 
annoy us somewhat. They are neither very rapid nor very efficient; they can be 
neutralized. ... Complete lack of incorporation of the peasants, although they are 
losing their fear of us and we are succeeding in winning their admiration. It is a 
slow and patient task. 

The internalization of the oppressor by the dominated consciousness of the 
peasants explains their fear and their inefficiency. 

The behaviour and reactions of the oppressed, which lead the oppressor to 
practise cultural invasion, should evoke from the revolutionary a different theory 
of action. What distinguished revolutionary leaders from the dominant elite is not 
only their objectives, but their procedures. If they act in the same way, the 
objectives become identical. It is as self-contradictory for the dominant elites to 
pose men-world relations as problems to the people as it is for the revolutionary 
leaders not to do so. 

Let us now analyse the theory of dialogical cultural action and attempt to 
apprehend its constituent elements. 


Cooperation 

In the theory of anti-dialogical action, conquest (as its primary characteristic) 
involves a Subject who conquers another person and ‘transforms him into a ‘thing’. 
In the dialogical theory of action, Subjects meet in cooperation in order to 
transform the world. The anti-dialogical, dominating ‘I’ transforms the domin-ated, 
conquered ‘thou’ into a mere ‘it’ in Martin Buber’s phraseology. The dialogical T, 
however, knows that it is precisely the ‘thou’ (‘not I’) which has called forth his 
own existence. He also knows that the ‘thou’ which calls forth his own existence in 
turn constitutes an ‘I’ which has in his ‘I’ its ‘thou’. The ‘I’ and the ‘thou’ thus 
become, in the dialectic of these relationships, two’ thous’ which become two’ Is’. 

The dialogical theory of action does not involve a Subject, who dominates by 
virtue of conquest, and a dominated object. Instead, there are Subjects who meet to 


name the world in order to transform it. If at a certain historical moment the 
oppressed, for the reasons previously described, are unable to fulfil their vocation 
as Subjects, the posing of their very oppression as a problem (which always 
involves some form of action) will help them achieve this vocation. 

The above does not mean that in the dialogical task there is no role for 
revolutionary leadership. It means merely that the leaders - in spite of their 
important, fundamental and indispensable role - do not own the people and have no 
right to steer the people blindly towards their salvation. Such a salvation would be 
a mere gift from the leaders to the people - a breaking of the dialogical bond 
between them, and a reducing of the people from co-authors of liberating action 
into the objects of this action. 

Cooperation, as a characteristic of dialogical action - which occurs only among 
Subjects (who may, however, have diverse levels of functions and thus of 
responsibility) - can only be achieved through communication. Dialogue, as 
essential com-munication, must underlie any cooperation. In the theory of 
dialogical action, there is no place for conquering the people on behalf of the 
revolutionary cause, but only for gaining their adherence. Dialogue does not 
impose, does not manipulate, does not domesticate, does not ‘sloganize’. This does 
not mean, however, that the theory of dialogical action leads nowhere; nor does it 
mean that the dialogical man does not have a clear idea of what he wants, or of the 
objectives to which he is committed. 

The commitment of the revolutionary leaders to the oppressed is at the same 
time a commitment to freedom. And because of that commitment, the leaders 
cannot attempt to conquer the oppressed, but must gain their adherence to 
liberation. Conquered adherence is not adherence; it is ‘adhesion’ of the 
vanquished to the conqueror, who prescribes the options open to the former. 
Authentic adherence is the free coincidence of choices; it cannot occur apart from 
communication among men, mediated by reality. 

Thus cooperation leads dialogical Subjects to focus their attention on the reality 
which mediates them and which - posed as a problem - challenges them. The 
response to that challenge is the action of dialogical Subjects upon reality in order 
to transform it. Let me re-emphasize that posing reality as a problem does not 
mean sloganizing: it means critical analysis of a problematic reality. 

As opposed to the mythicizing practices of the dominant elites, dialogical theory 
requires that the world be unveiled. No one can, however, unveil the world for 
another. Although one Subject may initiate the unveiling on behalf of others, the 
others must also become Subjects of this act. The adherence of the people is made 
possible by this unveiling of the world and of themselves, in authentic praxis. 



This adherence coincides with the trust the people begin to place in themselves 
and in the revolutionary leaders, as the former perceive the dedication and 
authenticity of the latter. The trust of the people in the leaders reflects the 
confidence of the leaders in the people. 

This confidence should not, however, be naive. The leaders must believe in the 
potentialities of the people, whom they cannot treat as mere objects of their own 
action; they must believe that the people are capable of participating in the pur-suit 
of liberation. But they must always mistrust the ambiguity of oppressed men, 
mistrust the oppressor ‘housed’ in the latter. Accordingly, when Guevara exhorts 
the revolutionary to be always mistrustful he is not disregarding the fundamental 
condition of the theory of dialogical action. He is merely being a realist. 

Although trust is basic to dialogue, it is not an a priori condition of the latter: it 
results from the encounter in which men are co- Subjects in denouncing the world, 
as part of the world’s transformation. But as long as the oppressor ‘within* the 
oppressed is stronger than they themselves are, their natural fear of freedom may 
lead them to denounce the revolutionary leaders instead! The leaders cannot be 
credulous, but must be alert for these possibilities. Guevara’s Episodes confirms 
these risks: not only desertions, but even betrayal of the cause. At times in this 
document, while recognizing the necessity of punishing the deserter in order to 
preserve the cohesion and dis-cipline of the group, Guevara also recognizes certain 
factors which explain the desertion. One of them, perhaps the most important, is 
the deserter’s ambivalence. 

Another portion of Guevara’s document, which refers to his presence (not only 
as a guerrilla but as a medical doctor) in a peasant community in the Sierra Maestra 
and relates to our discussion of cooperation, is quite striking: 

As a result of daily contact with these people and their problems we became 
firmly convinced of the need for a complete change in the life of our people. The 
idea of an agrarian reform became crystal clear. Communion with the people, 
ceasing to be a mere theory, became an integral part of ourselves. 

Guerrillas and peasants began to merge into a solid mass. No one can say 
exactly when, in this long process, the ideas became reality and we became apart 
of the peasantry. As far as 1 am concerned, the contact with my patients in the 
Sierra turned a spontaneous and some-what lyrical decision into a more serene 
force, one of an entirely differ-ent value Those poor, suffering, loyal inhabitants of 
the Sierra cannot even imagine what a great contribution they made ‘to the forging 
of our revolutionary ideology. 

Note Guevara’s emphasis that communion with the people was decisive for the 
transformation of a’ spontaneous and somewhat lyrical decision into a more serene 



force, one of an entirely different value’. It was, then, in dialogue with the peasants 
that Guevara’s revolutionary praxis became definitive. What Guevara did not say, 
perhaps due to humility, is that it was his own humility and capacity to love that 
made possible his communion with the people. And this indisputably dialogical 
communion became cooperation. Note that Guevara (who did not climb the Sierra 
Maestra with Fidel and his comrades as a frustrated youth in search of adventure) 
recognizes that his ‘ communion with the people ceased to be a mere theory, to 
become an integral part of [himself]’. He stresses how from the moment of that 
communion the peasants became ‘forgers’ of his ‘guerrillas’ ‘revolutionary 
ideology’. 

Even Guevara’s unmistakable style of narrating his and his comrades’ 
experiences, of describing his contacts with the ‘poor, loyal’ peasants in almost 
evangelical language, reveals this remarkable man’s deep capacity for love and 
communication. Thence emerges the force of his ardent testimony to the work of 
another loving man: Camilo Torres, ‘the guerrilla priest’. 

Without the communion which engenders true cooperation, the Cuban people 
would have been mere objects of the revolutionary activity of the men of the Sierra 
Maestra, and as objects, their adherence would have been impossible. At the most, 
there might have been ‘adhesion’, but that is a component of domination, not 
revolution. 

In dialogical theory, at no stage can revolutionary action forgo communion with 
the people. Communion in turn elicits cooperation, which brings leaders and 
people to the fusion described by Guevara. This fusion can exist only if 
revolution-ary activity is really human, empathetic, loving, communicative, and 
humble, in order to be liberating. 

The revolution loves and creates life; and in order to create life it may be 
obliged to prevent some men from circumscribing life. In addition to the life-death 
cycle basic to nature, there is also an unnatural living death: life which is denied its 
fullness. 

It should not be necessary here to cite statistics to show how many Brazilians 
(and Latin Americans in general) are living corpses, shadows of human beings, 
hopeless men, women and children victimized by an endless invisible war in which 
their remnants of life are devoured by tuberculosis, schistosomiasis, infant 
diarrhoea ... by the myriad diseases of poverty (most of which, in the terminology 
of the oppressors, are called ‘tropical diseases’). 

Father Chenu in Temoignage Chretien makes the following comments regarding 
possible reactions to situations as extreme as the above: 



Many, both among the priests attending the Council and the informed laymen, 
fear that in facing the needs and suffering of the world we may simply adopt an 
emotional protest in favour of palliating the manifestations and symptoms of 
poverty and injustice without going on to analyse the causes of the fatter to 
denounce a regime which encompasses this injustice and engenders this poverty. 


Unity for liberation 

Whereas in the anti-dialogical theory of action the dominators are compelled by 
necessity to divide the oppressed, the more easily to preserve the state of 
oppression, in the dialogical theory the leaders must dedicate themselves to an 
untiring effort for unity among the oppressed - and unity of the leaders with the 
oppressed - in order to achieve liberation. 

The difficulty is that this category of dialogical action (like the others) cannot 
occur apart from the praxis. The praxis of oppression is easy (or at least not 
difficult) for the dominant elite; it is not easy, however, for the revolutionary 
leaders to carry out a liberating praxis. The former group can rely on using the 
instruments of power; the latter group has this power directed against it. The 
former can organize itself freely, and though it may undergo fortuitous and 
momentary divisions, it unites rapidly in the face of any threat to its fundamental 
interests. The latter cannot exist without the people, and this very condition 
constitutes the first obstacle to its efforts at organization. 

It would indeed be inconsistent of the dominant elite to allow the revolutionary 
leaders to organize. The internal unity of the dominant elite, which reinforces and 
organizes its power, requires that the people be divided; the unity of the 
revolution-ary leaders only exists in the unity of the people among them-selves and 
in turn with them. The unity of the elite derives from its antagonism with the 
people; the unity of the revolutionary leadership group grows out of communion 
with the (united) people. The concrete situation of oppression - which dualizes the 
‘I’ of the oppressed person, thereby making him ambiguous, emotionally unstable, 
and fearful of freedom - facilitates the divisive action of the dominator by 
hindering the unifying action indispensable to liberation. 

Further, domination is itself objectively divisive. It maintains the oppressed ‘I’ 
in a position of ‘adhesion’ to a reality which seems all-powerful and 
overwhelming, and then alienates him by presenting mysterious forces to explain 
this power. Part of the oppressed T is located in the reality to which he ‘adheres’; 
part is located outside himself, in the mysterious forces which he regards as 
responsible for a reality about which he can do nothing. He is divided between an 
identical past and present, and a future without hope. He is a person who does not 


perceive himself as becoming; hence he cannot have a future to be built in unity 
with others. But as he breaks his ‘adhesion’ and objecti-fies the reality from which 
he starts to emerge, he begins to integrate himself as a Subject (an T) confronting 
an object (reality). At this moment, sundering the false unity of his divid-ed self, he 
becomes a true individual. 

To divide the oppressed, an ideology of oppression is indis-pensable. In contrast, 
achieving their unity requires a form of cultural action through which they come to 
know the why and how of their adhesion to reality - it requires de-ideologizing. 
Hence, the effort to unify the oppressed does not call for mere ideological 
‘sloganizing’. The latter, by distorting the authentic relation between the Subject 
and objective reality, also separates the cognitive, the affective, and the active 
aspects of the total, indivisible personality. 

The object of dialogical-libertarian action is not to ‘dislodge’ the oppressed from 
a mythological reality in order to ‘bind’ them to another reality. On the contrary, 
the object of dialogical action is to make it possible for the oppressed, by 
perceiving their adhesion, to opt to transform an unjust reality. 

Since the unity of the oppressed involves solidarity among them, regardless of 
their exact status, this unity unquestionably requires class consciousness. However, 
the submersion in reality which characterizes the peasants of Latin America means 
that consciousness of being an oppressed class must be preceded (or at least 
accompanied) by achieving consciousness of being oppressed individuals. 

Proposing as a problem, to a European peasant, the fact that he is a person might 
strike him as strange. This is not true of Latin-American peasants, whose world 
usually ends at the boundaries of the latifundium, whose gestures to some extent 
simulate those of the animals and the trees, and who often con-sider themselves 
equal to the latter. 

Men who are bound to nature and to the oppressor in this way must come to 
discern themselves as persons prevented from being. And discovering themselves 
means in the first instance, discovering themselves as Pedro, as Antonio, or as 
Josefa. This discovery implies a different perception of the meaning of 
designations’: the words ‘world’, ‘men’, ‘culture’, ‘tree’, ‘work *, ’animal’, 
reassume their true significance. The peasants now see themselves as transformers 
of reality (previously a mysterious entity) through their creative labour. They 
discover that - as men - they can no longer continue to be ‘things’ possessed by 
others; and they can move from consciousness of themselves as oppressed 
individuals to the consciousness of an oppressed class. 

Any attempt to unify the peasants based on activist methods which rely on 
‘slogans’ and do not deal with these fundamental aspects produces a mere 



juxtaposition of individuals, giving a purely mechanistic character to their action. 
The unity of the oppressed occurs at the human level, not at the level of things. It 
occurs in a reality which is only authentically comprehended in the dialectic 
between the sub- and superstructure. 

In order for the oppressed to unite, they must first cut the umbilical cord of 
magic and myth which binds them to the world of oppression; the unity which 
links them to each other must be of a different nature. To achieve this 
indispensable unity the revolutionary process must be, from the beginning, cultural 
action. The methods used to achieve the unity of the oppressed will depend on the 
latter’ s\ historical and existential experience within the social structure. 

Peasants live in a ‘closed’ reality with a single, compact centre of oppressive 
decision; the urban oppressed live in an expanding context in which the oppressive 
command centre is plural and complex. Peasants are under the control of a 
domi-nant figure who incarnates the oppressive system; in urban areas, the 
oppressed are subjected to an ‘oppressive impersonality’. In both cases the 
oppressive power is to a certain extent ‘invisible’; in the rural zone, because of its 
proximity to the oppressed; in the cities, because of its dispersion. 

Forms of cultural action in such different situations as these have nonetheless 
the same objective: to clarify to the oppressed the objective situation which binds 
them to the oppressors, visible or not. Only forms of action which avoid mere 
speech-making and ineffective ‘blah’ on the one hand, and mechan-istic activism 
on the other, can also oppose the divisive action of the dominant elites and move 
towards the unity of the oppressed. 


Organization 

In the theory of anti-dialogical action, manipulation is indis-pensable to 
conquest and domination; in the dialogical theory of action the organization of the 
people presents the antagon-istic opposite of this manipulation. Organization is not 
only directly linked to unity, but is a natural development of that unity. 
Accordingly, the leaders’ pursuit of unity is necessarily also an attempt to organize 
the people, requiring witness to the fact that the struggle for liberation is a common 
task. This con-stant, humble and courageous witness emerging from coopera-tion 
in a shared effort-the liberation of men-avoids the danger of anti-dialogical control. 
The form of witness may vary, depending on the historical conditions of any 
society; witness itself, however, is an indispensable element of revolutionary 
action. 

In order to determine the what and how of that witness, it is therefore essential to 
have an increasingly critical knowledge of the current historical context, the view 


of the world held by the people, the principal contradiction of society, and the 
principal aspect of that contradiction. Since these dimensions of witness are 
historical, dialogical, and therefore dialectical, witness cannot simply import them 
from other contexts without previously analysing its own. To do otherwise is to 
absolutize and mythologize the relative; alienation then becomes unavoid-able. 
Witness, in the dialogical theory of action, is one of the principal expressions of 
the cultural and educational character of the revolution. 

The essential elements of witness which do not vary historically include: 
consistency between words and actions; boldness which urges the witness to 
confront existence as a permanent risk; radicalization (not sectarianism) leading 
both the witness and the ones receiving that witness to increasing action; courage 
to love (which, far from being accommodation to an unjust world, is rather the 
transformation of that world on be-half of the increasing liberation of men); and 
faith in the people, since it is to them that witness is made - although witness to the 
people, because of their dialectical relations with the dominant elites, also affects 
the latter (who respond to that witness in their customary way). 

All authentic (that is, critical) witness involves the daring to run risks, including 
the possibility that the leaders will not always win the immediate adherence of the 
people. Witness which has not borne fruit at a certain moment and under certain 
conditions is not thereby rendered incapable of bearing fruit tomorrow. Since 
witness is not an abstract gesture, but an action - a confrontation with the world 
and with men - it is not static. It is a dynamic element which becomes part of the 
societal context in which it occurred; from that moment, it does not cease to affect 
that context. 

In anti-dialogical action, manipulation anaesthetizes the people and facilitates 
their domination; in dialogical action manipulation is superseded by authentic 
organization. In anti-dialogical action, manipulation serves the ends of conquest; in 
dialogical action, daring and loving witness serve the ends of organization. 

For the dominant elites, organization means organizing themselves. For the 
revolutionary leaders, organization means organizing themselves with the people. 
In the first event, the dominant elite increasingly structures its power so that it can 
more efficiently dominate and depersonalize; in the second, organization only 
corresponds to its nature and objective if in itself it constitutes the practice of 
freedom. Accordingly, the discipline necessary to any organization must not be 
confused with regimentation. It is quite true that without leadership, discipline, 
determination, and objectives - without tasks to fulfil and accounts to be rendered - 
an organization cannot survive, and revolutionary action is thereby diluted. This 
fact, however, can never justify treating the people as things to be used. The people 
are already depersonalized by oppression -If the revolutionary leaders manipulate 



them, instead of working towards their conscientization, they negate the very 
objective of organization (that is, liberation). 

Organizing the people is the process in which the revolution-ary leaders, who 
are also prevented from saying their own word, initiate the experience of learning 
how to name the world. This is true learning experience, and therefore dialogical. 
So it is that the leaders cannot say their word alone; they must say it with the 
people. Leaders who do not act dialogically, but insist on imposing their decisions, 
do not organize the people they manipulate them. They do not liberate, nor are they 
liberated : they oppress. 

The fact that the leaders who organize the people do not have the right to 
arbitrarily impose their word does not mean that they must therefore take a 
liberalist position which would encourage licence among the people, who are 
accustomed to oppression. The dialogical theory of action opposes both 
authoritarianism and licence, and thereby affirms authority and freedom. There is 
no freedom without authority, but there is also no authority without freedom. All 
freedom contains the possibility that under special circumstances (and at different 
existential levels) it may become authority. Freedom and authority cannot be 
isolated, but must be considered in relationship to each other. 

Authentic authority is not affirmed as such by a mere transfer of power, but 
through delegation or in sympathetic adherence. If authority is merely transferred 
from one group to another, or is imposed upon the majority, it degenerates into 
authori-tarianism. Authority can avoid conflict with freedom only if it is ‘freedom- 
become-authority’. Hypertrophy of the one provokes atrophy of the other. Just as 
authority cannot exist without freedom, and vice versa, authoritarianism cannot 
exist without denying freedom, nor licence without denying authority. 

In the theory of dialogical action, organization requires authority, so it cannot be 
authoritarian; it requires freedom, so it cannot be licentious. Organization is, rather, 
a highly educational process in which leaders and people together experience true 
authority and freedom, which they then seek to establish in society by transfonning 
the reality which mediates them. 


Cultural synthesis 

Cultural action is always a systematic and deliberate form of action which 
operates upon the social structure, either with the objective of preserving that 
structure or of transforming it. As a form of deliberate and systematic action, all 
cultural action has its theory which determines its ends and thereby defines its 
methods. Cultural action either serves domination (consciously or unconsciously) 
or it serves the liberation of men. As these dialectically opposed types of cultural 


action operate in and upon the social structure, they create dialectical relations of 
permanence and change. 

The social structure, in order to be, must become; in other words, becoming is 
the way the social structure expresses ‘duration ’ in the Bergsonian sense of the 
term. 

Dialogical cultural action does not have as its aim the dis-appearance of the 
permanence-change dialectic (an impossible aim, since disappearance of the 
dialectic would require the disappearance of the social structure itself and thus of 
men); it aims, rather, at surmounting the antagonistic contradictions of the social 
structure, thereby achieving the liberation of men. 

Anti-dialogical cultural action, on the other hand, aims at mythicizing such 
contradictions, thereby hoping to avoid (or hinder in so far as possible) the radical 
transformation of reality. Anti-dialogical action explicitly or implicitly aims to 
preserve, within the social structure, situations which favour its own agents. While 
the latter would never accept a transformation of the structure sufficiently radical 
to overcome its antagonistic contradictions, they may accept reforms which do not 
affect their power of decision over the oppressed. Hence, this modality of action 
involves the conquest of the people, their division, their manipulation, and cultural 
invasion. It is necessary and fundamentally an induced action. Dialogical action, 
how-ever, supersedes any induced aspect. The incapacity of anti-dialogical cultural 
action to supersede its induced character results from its objective: domination; the 
capacity of dialogical cultural action to do this lies in its objective: liberation. 

In cultural invasion, the actors draw the thematic content of their action from 
their own values and ideology; their starting point is their own world, from which 
they enter the world of those they invade. In cultural synthesis, the actors who 
come from ‘another world’ to the world of the people do so not as invaders. They 
do not come to teach or to transmit or to give anything, but rather to learn, with the 
people, about the people’s world. 

In cultural invasion the actors (who need not even go per-sonally to the invaded 
culture; increasingly, their action is carried out by technological instruments) 
superimpose themselves on the people, who are assigned the role of spectators, of 
objects. In cultural synthesis, the actors become integrated with the people, who 
are co-authors of the action that both perform upon the world. 

In cultural invasion, both the spectators and the reality to be preserved are 
objects of the actors’ action. In cultural synthesis, there are no spectators; the 
object of the actors’ action is the reality to be transformed for the liberation of 


men. 



Cultural synthesis is thus a mode of action for confronting culture itself, as the 
preserver of the very structures by which it was formed. Cultural action, as 
historical action, is an instrument for superseding the dominant alienated and 
alienating culture. In this sense, every authentic revolution is a cultural revolution. 

The investigation of the people’s generative themes or meaningful thematics 
described in chapter 3 constitutes the starting point for the process of action as 
cultural synthesis. Indeed, it is not really possible to divide this process into two 
separate steps: first, thematic investigation, and then action as cultural synthesis. 
Such a dichotomy would imply an initial phase in which the people, as passive 
objects, would be studied, analysed, and investigated by the investigators - a 
procedure congruent with anti-dialogical action. Such division would lead to the 
naive conclusion that action as synthesis follows from action as invasion. 

In dialogical theory, this division cannot occur. The Subjects of thematic 
investigation are not only the professional investi-gators but also the men of the 
people whose thematic universe is being sought. Investigation - the first moment of 
action as cultural synthesis - establishes a climate of creativity which will tend to 
develop in the subsequent stages of action. Such a climate does not exist in cultural 
invasion, which through alienation kills the creative enthusiasm of those who are 
invaded, leaving them hopeless and fearful of risking experimentation, without 
which there is no true creativity. 

Those who are invaded, whatever their level, rarely go beyond the models which 
the invaders prescribe for them. In cultural synthesis there are no invaders; hence, 
there are no imposed models. In their stead, there are actors who critically analyse 
reality (never separating this analysis from action) and inter- vene as Subjects in the 
historical process. 

Instead of following predetermined plans, leaders and people, mutually 
identified, together create the guidelines of their action. In this synthesis, leaders 
and people are somehow reborn in new knowledge and new action. Knowledge of 
the alienating culture leads to transforming action resulting in a culture which is 
being freed from alienation. The more sophisticated knowledge of the leaders is 
remade in the empirical knowledge of the people, while the latter is refined by the 
former. 

In cultural synthesis - and only in cultural synthesis - it is possible to resolve the 
contradiction between the world view of the leaders and that of the people, to the 
enrichment of both. Cultural synthesis does not deny the differences between the 
two views; indeed, it is based on these differences. It does deny the invasion of one 
by the other, but affirms the undeniable support each gives to the other. 



Revolutionary leaders must avoid organizing themselves apart from the people; 
whatever contradiction to the people may occur fortuitously, due to certain 
historical conditions, must be solved - not augmented by the cultural invasion of an 
imposed relationship. Cultural synthesis is the only way. 

Revolutionary leaders commit many errors and miscalculations by not taking 
into account something as real as the people’s view of the world: a view which 
explicitly and implicitly contains their concerns, their doubts, their hopes, their 
way of seeing the leaders, their perceptions of themselves and of the oppressors, 
their religious beliefs (almost always syncretic), their fatalism, their rebellious 
reactions. None of these elements can be seen separately, for in interaction all of 
them compose a totality. The oppressor is interested in knowing this totality only 
as an aid to his action of invasion in order to dominate or preserve domination. For 
the revolutionary leaders, the knowledge of this totality is indispensable to their 
action as cultural synthesis. 

Cultural synthesis (precisely because it is a synthesis) does not mean that the 
objectives of revolutionary action should be limited by the aspirations expressed in 
the world view of the people. If this were to happen (in the guise of respect for that 
view), the revolutionary leaders would be passively bound to that vision. Neither 
invasion by the leaders of the people’s world view nor mere adaptation by the 
leaders to the (often naive) aspirations of the people is acceptable. 

To be concrete: if at a given historical moment the basic aspiration of the people 
goes no further than a demand for salary increases, the leaders can commit one of 
two errors. They can limit their action to stimulating this one demand or they can 
overrule this popular aspiration and substitute something more far-reaching - but 
something which has not yet come to the forefront of the people’s attention. In the 
first case, the revolutionary leaders follow a line of adaptation to the people’s 
demands. In the second case, by not respecting the aspirations of the people, they 
fall into cultural invasion. 

The solution lies in synthesis: the leaders must on the one hand identify with the 
people’s demand for higher salaries, while on the other they must set the meaning 
of that very demand as a problem. By doing this, the leaders pose as a problem a 
real, concrete, historical situation of which the salary demand is one dimension. It 
will thereby become clear that salary demands alone cannot comprise a definitive 
solution. The essence of this solution can be found in the previously cited 
statement by bishops of the Third World that ‘if the workers do not somehow come 
to be owners of their own labour, all structural reforms will be ineffective ... they 
[must] be owners, not sellers, of their labour ... [for] any purchase or sale of labour 
is a type of slavery’. 



To achieve critical consciousness of the facts that it is neces-sary to be the 
‘owner of one’s own labour’, that labour ‘con-stitutes part of the human person’, 
and that a human being can neither be sold nor can he sell himself, is to go a step 
beyond the deception of palliative solutions. It is to engage in authentic 
transformation of reality in order, by humanizing that reality, to humanize men. 

In the anti-dialogical theory of action, cultural invasion serves the ends of 
manipulation, which in turn serves the ends pf conquest, and conquest serves the 
ends of domination. Cultural synthesis serves the ends of organization; 
organization serves the ends of liberation. 

This work deals with a very obvious truth: just as the oppressor, in order to 
oppress, needs a theory of oppressive action, so the oppressed, in order to become 
free, also need a theory of action. 

The oppressor elaborates his theory of action without the people, for he stands 
against them. Nor can the people - as long as they are crushed and oppressed, 
internalizing the image of the oppressor - construct by themselves the theory of 
their liberating action. Only in the encounter of the people with the revolutionary 
leaders - in their communion, in their praxis can this theory be built. 


End 


