324.3 

/A 6 I e 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2017 with funding from 

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Alternates 


https://archive.org/details/enfranchisementoOOmill 




ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


AN ESSAY BY 


MRS. JOHN STUART MILL, 


REPRINTED FR021 THS 


WESTMINSTER AND FOREIGN QUARTERLY REVIEW, 

FOR JULY, 1851, 

r 


NEW YOKE : 

Office of “THE REVOLUTION/ 

NO. 37 PARK ROW (ROOM 17). 


t 


1868. 





UNIVERSAL CLOTHES WRINGEJR, 

THE j 

Cannot be surpassed or equalled 
by any other Wringer for durabil- 
ity, till the expiration of the latent 
for the “ COG- WHEEL REGU- 
LATOR” or “STOP -GEAr." 
iVb other Wringer is licensed imder 
this Patent. It being now uijnver- 
sally conceded that Cogs are lieces- 
sary to prevent the Rolls froija be-, 
ing broken or torn loose, maijjy at- 
tempts have been made to jget a 
Cog-Wheel arrangement ijvhich 
shall equal the UNIVERSAL, 
and yet avoid the “Stop-G';ar” 
patent, but without success. 

Any Cog-Wheel Wringer having 
Cogs, whether at one or both ends 
pf the roll, which can play apart and fly out of gear when a large article is passing 
through, is COMPARATIVELY WORTHLESS, as the Cogs are then of no aid (when 
most needed, and an arrangement of Cog-Wheels in fixed bearings, the upper one alcting 
on a roll in movable bearings, must prove a mechanical failure in use, and we waijn all 
persons not to purchase such Wringers as an “improvement on the Universal,” which 
they are sometimes represented to be by the salesmen. 

• The “Universal Clothes Wringer” has been in use in my family for over five 
$ears. It certainly saves much hard work. It saves clothes also , for garments that are 
getting old and worn are never cracked or torn by it, as they are sure to be when wrung 
by hand. I therefore eheerfully recommend it as a valuable family assistant. 

Newark, N. J., June, 1867. LUCY STONE. 

Many who sell the UNIVERSAL WRINGER keep also the 

DOTY 

]i WASHING MACHINE, 

which, though hut recently introduced, is really 
ate great a LABOR and CLOTHES SAVER 
as the Wringer, and is destined to win public 
favor and patronage everywhere. 

• It washes perfectly , without wearing or rub- 
bing the clothes at all. 

, Those keeping the Wringer for sale, will or- 
der the W asher for customers, if they have not 
got a supply on hand. On receipt of the Re- 
tail price, from places where no one is selling , 
we will send either or both machines from New 
York. 

Prices— Familv Washer, $14. No. 1% Wrin- 
ger, $10. No. 2 Wringer, $8 60. 

A supply of the Wringers and Washers is 
always kept on hand in Chicago, Cincinnati, 

Cleveland, Janesville and St. Louis, boxed ready 
tor shipment, at about New York prices. 

Large profits are made selling these machines. Exclusive right of sale given, with no 
charge for the patent right. 1 

Circulars, giving Wholesale and Retail prices, sent free. 

R. C. BROWNING, General Agent, 

Opposite Merchant’® Hotel.) No. 32 Oourtlandt Street, New 

WARNE, CHEEYER & GO., General Agents, St, Louis, Moj 


3 2 ■A. 3 
M6!e 


Lm 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN: 


BY MRS. JOHN STUART MILL. 


REPRINTED FROM THE 


“WESTMINSTER AND FOREIGN QUARTERLY REVIEW,” 


FOR JULY, 1851. 




Most of our readers will probably learn from these pages, for 
the first time, that there has arisen in the United States, and in 
the most civilized and enlightened portion of them, an organized 
agitation on a new question, — new, not to thinkers, nor to any 

. one by whom the principles of free and popular government are 

felt, as well as acknowledged, but new, and even unheard of, as a 
subject for public meetings and practical political action. This 
question is, the enfranchisement of women ; their admission, in 
law, and in fact, to equality in all rights, political, civil and social, 
with the male citizens of the community. 

It will add to the surprise with which many will receive this 
intelligence, that the agitation which has commenced is not a 

I deading by male writers and orators for women, those who are 
>rofessedly to be benefited remaining either indifferent or osten- 
sibly hostile ; it is a political movement, practical in its objects, 
larried on in a form which denotes an intention to persevere. 
Lnd it is a movement not merely for women, but by them. 
Its first public manifestation appears to have been a convention 
K women, held in the State of New York, July, 1843. Of 

I ’ 3731 


u 


2 


E3CFEANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


this meeting we have seen no report. On the 23d and 24th of 
October last, a succession of public meetings was held at Worces* 
ter, in Massachusetts, under the name of a “ Women’s Rights 
Convention,” of which the president was a woman, and nearly all 
the chief speakers women; numerously reinforced, however, by 
men, among whom were some of the most distinguished leaders in 
the kindred cause of negro emancipation. A general and four 
special committees were nominated, for the purpose of carrying on 
the undertaking until the next annual meeting. 

According to the report in the New York Tribune , above a 
thousand persons were present throughout, and, “ if a larger place 
could have been had, many thousands more would have attended.” 
The place was described as “ crowded, from the beginning, with 
attentive and interested listeners.” In regard to the quality of 
the speaking, the proceedings bear an advantageous comparison 
with those of any popular movement with which we are ac- 
quainted, either in this country or in America. Very rarely, in 
the oratory of public meetings, is the part of verbiage and decla- 
mation so small, that of calm good sense and reason so consider- 
able. The result of the convention was, in every respect, en- 
couraging to those by whom it was summoned; and it is probably 
destined to inaugurate one of the most important of the movements 
towards political and social reform, which are the best character- 
istic of the present age. 

That the promoters of this new agitation take their stand on 
principles, and do not fear to declare these in their widest extent, 
without time-serving or compromise, will be seen from the reso- 
lutions adopted by the convention, part of which we transcribe : 

Resolved , That every human being, of full age, and resident for a pro 
length of time on the soil of the nation, who is required to obey the law, 
entitled to a voice in its ei Ument ; that every such person, whose Tffope 
or labor is taxed for the support of the government, is entitled to a dir 
share in such government. Therefore, 

Resolved, That women are entitled to the right of suffrage, and to be c 
sidered eligible to office ; and that every party, whioh claims to repres 
the humanity, the civilization, and the progress of the age, is bound to 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


3 


scribe on its banners, equality before the law, without distinction of sex oi 
color. 

Resolved, That civil and political rights acknowledge no sex, and there* 
fore the word “ male ” should be stricken from every state constitution. 

Resolved, That, since the prospect of honorable and useful employment in 
after life is the best stimulus to the use of educational advantages, and since 
the best education is that we give ourselves, in the struggles, employments 
and discipline of life ; therefore it is impossible that women should make 
full use of the instruction already accorded to them, or that their career 
should do justice to their faculties, until the avenues to the various civil and 
professional employments are thrown open to them. 

Resolved, That every effort to educate women, without according to them 
their rights, and arousing their conscience by the weight of their responsibil- 
ities, is futile, and a waste of labor. 

Resolved, That the laws of property, as affecting married persons, de- 
mand a thorough revisal, so that all rights be equal between them ; that the 
wife have, during life, an equal control over the property gained by their 
mutual toil and sacrifices, and be heir to her husband precisely to that extent 
that he is heir to her, and entitled at her death to dispose by will of the 
same share of the joint property as he is. 

The following is a brief summary of the principal demands : 

1. Education in primary and high schools, universities, medical, legal and 
theological institutions. 

2. Partnership in the labors and gains, risks and remunerations, of product- 
ive industry. 

3. A coequal share in the formation and administration of laws, — muni- 
cipal, state and national, — through legislative assemblies, courts, and exe- 
cutive offices. 

It would be difficult to put so much true, just and reasonable 
meaning into a style so little calculated to recommend it as that 
of some of the resolutions. But whatever objection may be made 
to some of the expressions, none, in our opinion, can be made to the 
demands themselves. As a question of justice, the case seems to 
us too clear for dispute. As one of expediency, the more thoroughly 
it is examined, the stronger it will appear. 

That women have as good a claim as men have, in point of per- 
sonal right, to the suffrage, or to a place in the jury-box, it would 
be' difficult for anyone to deny. It cannot certainly be denied by 
fchd United States of America, as a people or as community. 


4 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


Their democratic institutions rest avowedly on the inherent right 
of every one to a voice in the government. Their Declaration of 
Independence, framed by the men who are still their great constitu- 
tional authorities, — that document which has been from the first, 
and is now, the acknowledged basis of their polity, — commences 
with this express statement: 

“ We hold these truths to be self-evident : that all men are created equal; 
that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights ; 
that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness ; that, to 
secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their 
just powers from the consent of the governed.” 

We do not imagine that any American democrat will evade the 
force of these expressions by the dishonest or ignorant subterfuge, 
that “ men,” in this memorable document, does not stand for 
human beings, but for one sex only ; that “ life, liberty and the 
pursuit of happiness,” are “ inalienable rights ” of only one moiety 
of the human species ; and that “ the governed,” whose consent is 
affirmed to be the only source of just power, are meant for that 
half of mankind only, who, in relation to the other, have hitherto 
assumed the character of governors. The contradiction between 
principle and practice cannot be explained away. A like derelic- 
tion of the fundamental maxims of their political creed has been 
committed by the Americans in the flagrant instance of the 
negroes ; of this they are learning to recognize the turpitude. 
After a struggle which, by many of its incidents, deserves the 
name of heroic, the abolitionists are now so strong in numbers and 
influence, that they hold the balance of parties in the United 
States. It was fitting that the men whose names will remain 
associated with the extirpation from the democratic soil of 
’America of the aristocracy of color, should be among the origin- 
ators, for America and for the rest of the world, of the first col- 
lective protest against the aristocracy of sex ; a distinction as 
accidental as that of color, and fully as irrelevant to all questions 
of government. 

Not only to the democracy of America the claim of women to 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


5 


civil and political equality makes an irresistible appeal, but also 
to those radicals and chartists in the British islands, and demo- 
crats on the continent, who claim what is called universal suffrage 
as an inherent right, unjustly and oppressively withheld from 
them. For with what truth or rationality could the suffrage be 
termed universal, while half the human species remain excluded 
from it ? To declare that a voice in the government is the right 
of all, and demand it only for a part, — the part, namely, to which 
the claimant himself belongs, — is to renounce even the appear- 
ance of principle. The chartist who denies the suffrage to women 
is a chartist only because he is not a lord ; he is one of those 
levellers who would level only down to themselves. 

Even those who do not look upon a voice in the government as 
a matter of personal right, nor profess principles which require 
that it should be extended to all, have usually traditional maxims 
of political justice, with which it is impossible to reconcile the ex- 
clusion of all women from the common rights of citizenship. It is 
an axiom of English freedom, that taxation and representation 
should be coextensive. Even under the laws which give the 
wife’s property to the husband, there are many unmarried women 
who pay taxes. It is one of the fundamental doctrines of the 
British constitution, that all persons should be tried by their peers; 
yet women, whenever tried, are tried by male judges and a male 
jury. To foreigners, the law accords the privilege of claiming 
that half the jury should be composed of themselves ; not so to 
women. Apart from maxims of detail, which represent local and 
national, rather than universal ideas, it is an acknowledged dic- 
tate of justice, to make no degrading distinctions without neces- 
sity. In all things, the presumption ought to be on the side of 
equality. A reason must be given why anything should be per- 
mitted to one person, and interdicted to another. But when that 
which is interdicted includes nearly everything which those to 
whom it is permitted most prize, and to be deprived of which they 
feel to be most insulting ; when not only political liberty, but per- 
sonal freedom of action, is the prerogative of a caste ; when even, 
in the exercise of industry, almost all employments which th£k fh© 


6 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


higher facult.es in an important field, which lead to distinction, 
riches, or even pecuniary independence, are fenced round as the ex- 
elusive domain of the predominant section, scarcely any doors being 
left open to the dependent class, except such as all who can enter 
elsewhere disdainfully pass by ; the miserable expediencies which 
are advanced as excuses for so grossly partial a dispensation 
would not be sufficient, even if they were real, to render it other 
than a flagrant injustice. While, far from being expedient, we 
are firmly convinced that the division of mankind into two castes, 
one born to rule over the other, is, in this case, as in all cases, an 
unqualified mischief ; a source of perversion and demoralization, 
both to the favored class and to those at whose expense they are 
favored ; producing none of the good which it is the custom to 
ascribe to it, and forming a bar, almost insuperable, while it lasts, 
to any really vital improvement, either in the character or in the 
social condition of the human race. 

These propositions it is now our purpose to maintain. But, 
before entering on them, we would endeavor to dispel the prelimi- 
nary objections which, in the minds of persons to whom the subject 
is new, are apt to prevent a real and conscientious examination of 
it. The chief of these obstacles is that most formidable one — 
custom. Women never have had eoual rights with men. The claim 
in their behalf, of the common rights of mankind, is looked upon as 
barred by universal practice. This strongest of prejudices, the 
prejudice against what is new and unknown, has, indeed, in an age 
of changes like the present, lost much of its force ; if it had not, 
there would be little hope of prevailing against it. Over three 
fourths of the habitable world, even at this day, the answer, “ It 
has always been so,” closes all discussion. But it is the boast of 
modern Europeans, and of their American kindred, that they know 
and do many things which their forefathers neither knew nor did ; 
and it is, perhaps, the most unquestionable point of superiority in 
the present, above former ages, that habit is not now the tyrant it 
formerly was over opinions and modes of action, and that the 
worship of custom is a declining idolatry. An uncustomary 
thought, on a subject which touches the greater interests of life, 


ENI /RAN CHI SEMEN T OF WOMEN. 


7 


still startles w .en first presented ; but if it can be kept before the 
mind until the impression of strangeness wears off, it obtains a 
hearing, and as rational a consideration as the intellect of the 
hearer is accustomed to bestow on any other subject. 

In the present case, the prejudice of custom is doubtless on the 
unjust side. Great thinkers, indeed, at different times, from Plato 
to Condorcet, besides some of the most eminent names of the 
present age, have made emphatic protests in favor of the equality 
of women. And there have been voluntary societies, religious or 
secular, of which the Society of Friends is the most known, by 
whom that principle was recognized. But there has been no polit- 
ical community or nation in which, by law, and usage, women 
have not been in a state of political and civil inferiority. In the 
ancient world, the same fact was alleged, with equal truth, in 
behalf of slavery. It might have been alleged in favor of the 
mitigated form of slavery, serfdom, all through the middle ages. 
It was urged against freedom of industry, freedom of conscience, 
freedom of the press ; none of these liberties were thought com- 
patible with a well-ordered state, until they had proved their pos- 
sibility by actually existing as facts. That an institution or a 
practice is customary, is no presumption of its goodness, when any 
other sufficient cause can be assigned for its existence. There 
is no difficulty in understand^ why the subjection of women has 
been a custom. No other explanation is needed than physical 
force. 

That those who were physically weaker should have been made 
legally inferior, is quite conformable to the mode in which the 
world has been governed. Until very lately, the rule of physical 
strength was the general law of human affairs. Throughout 
history, the nations, races, classes, which found themselves the 
strongest, either in muscles, in riches, or in military discipline, 
have conquered and held in subjection the rest. If, even in the 
most improved nations, the law of the sword is at last discounte- 
nanced as unworthy, it is only since the calumniated eighteenth 
century. Wars of conquest have only ceased since democratic 
revolutions began. The world is very young, and has but just 


8 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


begun to cast off injustice. It is only now getting rid of negro 
slavery. It is only now getting rid of monarchical despotism. It 
is only now getting rid of hereditary feudal nobility. It is only 
now getting rid of disabilities on the ground of religion. It is 
only beginning to treat any men as citizens, except the rich and a 
favored portion of the middle class. Can we wonder that it has 
not yet done* as much for women ? As society was constituted 
until the last few generations, inequality was its very basis ; as- 
sociation grounded on equal rights scarcely existed ; to be equals 
was to be enemies ; two persons could hardly cooperate in any- 
thing, or meet in any amicable relation, without the law’s appoint- 
ing that one of them should be the superior of the other. Man- 
kind have outgrown this state, and all things now tend to substi- 
tute, as the general principle of human relations, a just equality 
instead of the dominion of the strongest. But, of all relations, 
that between men and women being the nearest and most intimate, 
and connected with the greatest number of strong emotions, was 
sure to be the last to throw off the old rule and receive the new ; 
for, in proportion to the strength of a feeling, is the tenacity with 
which it clings to the forms and circumstances with which it has 
even accidentally become associated. 

When a prejudice which has any hold on the feelings finds 
itself reduced to the unpleasant necessity of assigning reasons, it 
thinks it has done enough when it has reasserted the very point 
in dispute, in phrases which appeal to the preexisting feeling. 
Thus, many persons think they have sufficiently justified the 
restrictions on women’s field of action when they have said that 
the pursuits from which women are excluded are unfeminine, and 
that the proper sphere of women is not politics or publicity, but 
private and domestic life. 

We deny the right of any portion of the species to decide for 
another portion, or any individual for another individual, what is 
and what is not their “ proper sphere.” The proper sphere for 
all human beings is the largest and highest which they are able to 
attain to. What this is, cannot be ascertained without complete 
liberty of choice. The speakers at the convention in America 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


9 


have, thei ffore, done wisely and right in refusing to entertain the 
question of the peculiar aptitudes either of women or of men, or 
the limits within which this or that occupation may be supposed 
to be more adapted to the one or to the other. They justly main- 
tain that these questions can only be satisfactorily answered by 
perfect freedom. Let every occupation be open to all, without 
favor or discouragement to any, and employments will fall into 
the hands of those men or women who are found by experience to 
be most capable of worthily exercising them. There need be no 
fear that women will take out of the hands of men any occupa- 
tion which men perform better than they. Each individual will 
prove his or her capacities, in the only way in which capacities 
can be proved, by trial ; and the world will have the benefit of 
the best faculties of all its inhabitants. But to interfere before- 
hand by an arbitrary limit, and declare that whatever be the 
genius, talent, energy, or force of mind, of an individual of a cer- 
tain sex or class, those faculties shall not be exerted, or shall be 
exerted only in some few of the many modes in which others are 
permitted to use theirs, is not only an injustice to the individual, 
and a detriment to society, which loses what it can ill spare, but 
is also the most effectual mode of providing that, in the sex or 
class so fettered, the qualities which are not permitted to be exer- 
cised shall not exist. 

We shall follow the very proper example of the convention, in 
not entering into the question of the alleged differences in physical 
or mental qualities between the sexes ; not because we have noth- 
ing to say, but because we have too much : to discuss this one 
point tolerably would need all the space we have to bestow on the 
entire subject.^ But if those who assert that the “ proper sphere” 

* An excellent passage on this part of the subject, from one of Sydney 
Smith’s contributions to the Edinburgh Review , we will not refrain from quot- 
ing : “ A great deal hi*3 been said of the original difference of capacity 
between men and womer as if women were more quick and men more judi- 
cious ; as if women wer* more remarkable for delicacy of association, and 
men for stronger powers of attention. All this, we confess, appears to us 
very fanciful. That there is a difference in the understandings of the men 
3 


10 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


for women is the domestic mean by this that they have not shown 
themselves qualified for any other, the assertion evinces great 
ignorance of life and of history. Women have shown fitness for 
the highest social functions exactly in proportion as they have 
been admitted to them. By a curious anomaly, though ineligible 
to even the lowest offices of state, they are in some countries 
admitted to the highest of all, the regal ; and if there is any one 
function for which they have shown a decided vocation, it is that 
of reigning. Not to go back to ancient history, we look in vain 
for abler or firmer rulers than Elizabeth ; than Isabella of Cas- 
tile ; than Maria Theresa ; than Catharine of Russia ; than 
Blanche, mother of Louis IX. of France; than Jeanne d’Albret, 
mother of Henri Quatre. There are few kings on record who 
contended with more difficult circumstances, or overcame them 
more triumphantly, than these. Even in semi-barbarous Asia, 
princesses who have never been seen by men other than those of 
their own family, or ever spoken with them unless from behind a 
curtain, have, as regents, during the minority of their sons, exhib- 
ited many of the most brilliant examples of just and vigorous 
administration. In the middle ages, when the distance between 
the upper and lower ranks was greater than even between women 
and men, and the women of the privileged class, however subject 
to tyranny from men of the same class, were at a less distance 
below them than any one else was, and often in their absence rep- 
resented them in their functions and authority, numbers of heroic 

and the women we every day meet with, everybody, we suppose, must per- 
ceive ; but there is none, surely, which may not be accounted for by the dif- 
ference of circumstances in which they have been placed, without referring 
to any conjectural difference of original conformation of mind. As long as 
boys and girls run about in the dirt, and trundle hoops together, they arc 
both precisely alike. If you catch up one half of these creatures, and train 
them to a particular set of actions and opinions, and the other half to a 
perfectly opposite set, of course their understandings will differ, as one or 
the other sort of occupations has called this or that talent into action. 
There is surely no occasion to go into any deeper or more abstruse reason- 
ing, in order to explain so very simplo a phenomenon.” — Sydney Smith's 
Works , vol. i. t j . 200. 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


11 


chatelaines, like Jeanne de Montfort, or the great Countess of 
Derby, as late even as the time of Charles I., distinguished them- 
selves, not only by their political, but their military capacity. In 
the centuries immediately before and after the Reformation, ladies 
of royal houses, as diplomatists, as governors of provinces, or as 
the confidential advisers of kings, equalled the first statesmen of 
their time; and the treaty of Cambray, which gave peace to 
Europe, w r as negotiated, in conferences where no other person was 
present, by the aunt of the Emperor Charles the Fifth, and the 
mother of Francis the First. 

Concerning the fitness, then, of women for politics, there can be 
no question : but the dispute is more likely to turn upon the fit- 
ness of politics for women. When the reasons alleged for exclud- 
ing women from active life in all its higher departments are 
stripped of their garb of declamatory phrases, and reduced to the 
simple expression of a meaning, they seem to be mainly three : 
the incompatibility of active life with maternity, and with the 
cares of a household ; secondly, its alleged hardening effect on the 
character ; and, thirdly, the inexpediency of making an addition 
to the already excessive pressure of competition in every kind of 
professional or lucrative employment. 

The first, the maternity argument, is usually laid most stress 
upon ; although (it needs hardly be said) this reason, if it be one, 
can apply only to mothers. It is neither necessary nor just to 
make imperative on women that they shall be either mothers or 
nothing ; or, that if they had been mothers once, they shall be 
nothing else during the whole remainder of their lives. Neither 
women nor men need any law to exclude them from an occupation, 
if they have undertaken another which is incompatible with it. 
No one proposes to exclude the male sex from parliament because 
a man may be a soldier or sailor in active service, or a merchant 
whose business requires all his time and energies. Nine tenths of 
the occupations of men exclude them de facto from public life, as 
effectually as if they were excluded by law ; but that is no reason 
for making laws to exclude even the nine tenths, much less the 
remaining tenth. The reason of the case is the same for women 


12 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


a 3 for men. • There is no need to make provision by law that a 
woman shall not carry on the active details of a household, or of 
the education of children, and at the same time practise a profes- 
sion or be elected to parliament. Where incompatibility is real, 
it will take care of itself ; but there is gross injustice in making 
the incompatibility a pretence for the exclusion of those in whose 
case it does not exist! And these, if they were free to choose, 
would be a very large proportion. The maternity argument 
deserts its supporters in the case of single women, a large and 
increasing class of the population — a fact which, it is not irrel- 
evant to remark, by tending to diminish the excessive competition 
of numbers, is calculated to assist greatly the prosperity of all. 
There is no inherent reason or necessity that all women should 
voluntarily choose to devote their lives to one animal function and 
its consequences. Numbers of women are wives and mothers only 
becifuse there is no other career open to them, no other occupation 
for their feelings or their activities. Every improvement in their 
education and enlargement of their faculties, everything which 
renders them more qualified for any other mode of life, increases 
the number of those to whom it is an injury and an oppression to 
be denied the choice. To say that women must be excluded from 
active life because maternity disqualifies them for it, is in fact to 
say that every other career should be forbidden them, in order 
that maternity may be their only resource. 

r'-~ 

But, secondly, it is urged, that to give the same freedom of occu- 
pation to women as to men, would be an injurious addition to the 
crowd of competitors, by whom the avenues to almost all kinds of 
employment are choked up, and its remuneration depressed. This 
argument, it is to be observed, does not reach the political ques- 
tion. It gives no excuse for withholding from women the rights 
of citizenship. The suffrage, the jury-box, admission to the legis- 
lature and to office, it does not touch. It bears only on the 
industrial branch of the subject. Allowing it, then, in an econom- 
ical point of view, its full force, — assuming that to lay open to 
women the employments now mononolized by men would tend. 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


13 


like the breaking down of other monopolies, to lower the rate of 
remuneration in those employments, — let us consider what is the 
amount of this evil consequence, and what the compensation for it. 
The worst ever asserted, much worse than is at all likely to be 
realized, is, that if women competed with men, a man and a woman 
could not together earn more than is now earned by the man 
alone. Let us make this supposition, the most unfavorable sup- 
position possible : the joint income of the two would be the same 
as before, while the woman would be raised from the position of a 
servant to that of a partner. Even if every woman, as matters 
now stand, had a claim on some man for support, how infinitely 
preferable is it that part of the income should be of the woman’s 
earning, even if the aggregate sum were but little increased by it, 
rather than that she should be compelled to stand aside in order 
that men may be the sole earners, and the sole dispensers of what 
is earned ! Even under the present laws respecting the property 
of women, * a woman who contributes materially to the support 
of the family cannot be treated in the same contemptuously tyran- 
nical manner as one who, however she may toil as a domestic 
drudge, is a dependent on the man for subsistence. As for the 
depression of wages by increase of competition, remedies will be 
found for it in time. Palliatives might be applied immediately ; 
for instance, a more rigid exclusion of children from industrial em- 
ployment, during the years in which they ought to be working only 
to strengthen their bodies and minds for after life. Children are 
necessarily dependent, and under the power of others ; and their 
labor, being not for themselves, but for the gain of their parents, 
is a proper subject for legislative regulation. With respect to the 
future, we neither believe that improvident multiplication, and 

* The truly horrible effects of the present state of the law among the lowest 
of the working population is exhibited in those cases of hideous mal-treat- 
ment of their wives by working men, with which every newspaper, every 
police report, teems. Wretches unfit to have the smallest authority over 
any living thing have a helpless woman for their household slave. These 
excesses could not exist if women both earned and had the right to pos- 
sess a part of the income of the family. 


14 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


the consequent excessive difficulty of gaining a .subsistence, will 
always continue, nor that the division of mankind into capitalists 
and hired laborers, and the regulation of the reward of laborers 
mainly by demand and supply, will be forever, or even much 
longer, the rule of the world. But so long as competition is the 
general law of human life, it is tyranny to shut out one half of the 
competitors. All who have attained the age of self-government 
have an equal claim to be permitted to sell whatever kind of 
useful labor they are capable of, for the price which it will bring. 

The third objection to the admission of women to political or 
professional life, its alleged hardening tendency, belongs to an age 
now past, and is scarcely to be comprehended by people of the 
present time. There are still, however, persons who say that the 
world and its avocations render men selfish and unfeeling ; that 
the struggles, rivalries and collisions of business and of politics, 
make them harsh and unamiable ; that if half the species must 
unavoidably be given up to these things, it is the more necessary 
that the other half should be kept free from them ; that to pre- 
serve women from the bad influences of the world is the only 
chance of preventing men from being wholly given up to them. 

There would have been plausibility in this argument when the 
world was still in the age of violence ; when life was full of phy- 
sical conflict, and every man had to redress his injuries, or those 
of others, by the sword or by the strength of his arm. Women, 
like priests, by being exempted from such responsibilities, and 
from some part of the accompanying dangers, may have been 
enabled to exercise a beneficial influence. But in the present 
condition of human life, we do not know where those hardening 
influences are to be found, to which men are subject, and from 
which women are at present exempt. Individuals now-a-days are 
seldom called upon to fight hand to hand, even with peaceful 
weapons ; personal enmities and rivalries count for little in 
worldly transactions ; the general pressure of circumstances, not 
the adverse will of individuals, is the obstacle men now have to 
make head against. That pressure, when excessive, breaks the 
spirit, and cramps and sours the feolingvS, but not less of women 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


15 


than of men, since they suffer certainly not less from its evils. 
There are still quarrels and dislikes, but the sources of them are 
changed. The feudal chief once found his bitterest enemy in iiis 
powerful neighbor, the minister or courtier in his rival for place ; 
but opposition of interest in active life, as a cause of personal 
animosity, is out of date ; the enmities of the present day arise 
not from great things, but small, — from what people say of one 
another, more than from what they do ; and if there are hatred, 
malice, and all uncharitableness, they are to be found among 
women fully as much as among men. In the present state of civ- 
ilization, the notion of guarding women from the hardening influ- 
ences of the world could only be realized by secluding them from 
society altogether. The common duties of common life, as at 
present constituted, are incompatible with any other softness in 
women than weakness. Surely weak minds in weak bodies must 
ere long cease to be even supposed to be either attractive or 
amiable. 

But, in truth, none of these arguments and considerations touch 
the foundations of the subject. The real question is, whether it is 
right and expedient that one half of the human race should pass 
through life in a state of forced subordination to the other half. 
If the best state of human society is that of being divided into 
two parts, one consisting of persons with a will and a substantive 
existence, the other of humble companions to these persons, at- 
tached each of ‘them to one, for the purpose of bringing up his 
children, and making his home pleasant to him ; if this is the 
place assigned to women, it is but kindness to educate them for 
this ; to make them believe that the greatest good fortune which 
can befall them is to be chosen by some man for this purpose ; 
and that every other career which the world deems happy or hon- 
orable is closed to them by the law, not of social institutions, but 
of nature and destiny. 

When, however, we ask, why the existence of one half the 
species should be merely ancillary to that of the other, — why each 
woman should be a mere appendage to a man, allowed to have no 
interests of her own, that there may be nothing to compete in her 


16 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


mind with his interests and his pleasure, — the only reason which 
can be given is, that u.en like it. It is agreeable to them that 
men should live for their own sake, women for the sake of men ; 
and the qualities and conduct in subjects which are agreeable to 
rulers they succeed for a long time in making the subjects them- 
selves consider as their appropriate virtues. Helvetius has met 
with much obloquy for asserting that persons usually mean by 
virtues the qualities which are useful or convenient to themselves. 
How truly this *is said of mankind in general, and how wonder- 
fully the ideas of virtue, set afloat by the powerful, are caught 
and imbibed by those under their dominion, is exemplified by the 
manner in which the world were once persuaded that the supreme 
virtue of subjects was loyalty to kings, and are still persuaded 
that the paramount virtue of womanhood is loyalty to men. 
Under a nominal recognition of a moral code common to both, in 
practice self-will and self-assertion form the type of what are 
designated as manly virtues, while abnegation of self, patience, 
resignation, and submission to power, unless when resistance is 
commanded by other interests than their own, have been stamped 
by general consent as preeminently the duties and graces required 
of women. The meaning being, merely, that power makes itself 
the centre of moral obligation, and that a man likes to have his own 
will, but does not like that his domestic companion should have a 
will different from his. 

We are far from pretending that in modern and civilized times 
no reciprocity of obligation is acknowledged on the part of the 
stronger. Such an assertion would be very wide of the truth. 
But even this reciprocity, which has disarmed tyranny, at least in 
the higher and middle classes, of its most revolting features, yet 
when combined with the original evil of the dependent condition 
of women, has introduced in its turn serious evils. 

In the beginning, and among tribes which are still in a primitive 
condition, women were and are the slaves of men for the purposes 
of toil. All the hard bodily labor devolves on them. The Aus- 
tralian savage is idle, while women painfully dig up the roots on 
which he lives. An American Indian, when he has killed a deer, 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN, 


17 


leaves it, and sends a woman to carry it home. In a state some- 
what more advanced, as in Asia, women were and are the slaves 
of men for the purposes of sensuality. In Europe, there early 
succeeded a third and milder dominion, secured not by blows, nor 
by locks and bars, but by sedulous inculcation on the mind ; feel- 
ings also of kindness, and ideas of duty, such as a superior owes 
to inferiors under his protection, became more and more involved 
in the relation. But it did not, for many ages, become a relation 
of companionship, even between unequals; the lives of the two 
persons were apart. The wife was part of the furniture of 
home, of the resting-place to which the man returned from busi- 
ness or pleasure. His occupations were, as they still are, among 
men; his pleasures and excitements also were, for the most part, 
among men — among his equals. He was a patriarch and a despot 
within four walls, and irresponsible power had its effect, greater 
or less according to his disposition, in rendering him domineering, 
exacting, self-worshipping, when not capriciously or brutally 
tyrannical. But if the moral part of his nature suffered, it was 
not necessarily so, in the same degree, with the intellectual or the 
active portion. He might have as much vigor of mind and en- 
ergy of character as his nature enabled him, and as the circum- 
stances of his times allowed. He might write the “ Paradise 
Lost,” or win the battle of Marengo. This was the condition of 
the Greeks and Homans, and of the moderns until a recent date. 
Their relations with their domestic subordinates occupied a mere 
corner, though a cherished one, of their lives. Their education as 
men, the formation of their character and faculties, depended 
mainly on a different class of influences. 

It is otherwise now. The progress of improvement has imposed 
on all possessors of power, and of domestic power among the rest, 
an increased and increasing sense of correlative obligation. No 
man now thinks that his wife has no claim upon his actions, but 
such as he may accord to her. All men, of any conscience, be- 
lieve that their -duty to their wives is one of the most binding of 
their obligations. Nor is it supposed to consist solely in protec- 
tion, which, in the present state of civilization, women have almost 


18 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


ceased to need ; it involves care for their happiness and consider- 
ation of their wishes, with a not unfrequent sacrifice of their own 
to them. The power of husbands has reached the stage which the 
power of kings had arrived at, when opinion did not yet question 
the rightfulness of arbitrary power, but in theory, and to a certain 
extent in practice, condemned the selfish use of it. This im- 
provement in the moral sentiments of mankind, and increased sense 
of the consideration due by every man to those who have no one 
but himself to look to, has tended to make home more and more 
the centre of interest, and domestic circumstances and society a 
larger and larger part of life, and of its pursuits and pleasures. 
The tendency has been strengthened by the changes of tastes and 
manners w r hich have so remarkably distinguished the last two or 
three generations. In days not far distant, men found their ex- 
citement and filled up their time in violent bodily exercises, noisy 
merriment, and intemperance. They have now, in all but the 
very poorest classes, lost their inclination for these things, and for 
the coarser pleasures generally ; they have now scarcely any 
tastes but those which they have in common with women, and, for 
the first time in the world, men and women are really companions. 
A most beneficial change, if the companionship were between 
equals ; but being between unequals, it produces, what good 
observers have noticed, though without perceiving its cause, a pro- 
gressive deterioration among men in what had hitherto been con- 
sidered the masculine excellences. Those who are so careful that 
women should not become men, do not see that men are becoming 
what they have decided that women should be — are falling into 
the feebleness which they have so long cultivated in their com- 
panions. Those who are associated in their lives tend to become 
assimilated in character. In the present closeness of association 
between the sexes, men cannot retain manliness unless women 
acquire it. 

There is hardly any situation more unfavorable to the mainte- 
nance of elevation of character or force of intellect, than to live 
in the society, and seek by preference the sympathy, of inferiors 
in mental endowments. Why is it that we constantly see in life 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


19 


so much of intellectual and moral promise followed by such inad- 
equate performance, but because the aspirant has compared him- 
self only with those below himself, and has not sought improvement 
or stimulus from measuring himself with his equals or superiors? 
In the present state of social life, this is becoming the general con- 
dition of men. They care less and less for any sympathies, and 
are less and less under any personal influences, but those of the 
domestic roof. Not to be misunderstood, it is necessary that w r e 
should distinctly disclaim the belief that women are even now 
inferior in intellect to men. There are women who are the equals 
in intellect of any men who ever lived; and, comparing ordinary 
women with ordinary men, the varied though petty details which 
compose the occupation of women call forth probably as much of 
mental ability as the uniform routine of the pursuits which are 
the habitual occupation of a large majority of men. It is from 
nothing in the faculties themselves, but from the petty subjects 
and interests on which alone they are exercised, that the com- 
panionship of women, such as their present circumstances make 
them, so often exercises a dissolvent influence on high faculties 
and aspirations in men. If one of the two has no knowledge and 
no care about the great ideas and purposes which dignify life, or 
about any of its practical concerns save personal interests and 
personal vanities, her conscious, and still more her unconscious 
influence, will, except in rare cases, reduce to a secondary place 
in his mind, if not entirely extinguish, those interests which she 
cannot or does not share. Our argument here brings us into col- 
lision with what may be termed the moderate reformers of the 
education of women ; a sort of persons who cross the path of im- 
provement on all great questions ; those w r ho w r ould maintain the 
old bad principles, mitigating their consequences. These say, 
that women should be, not slaves nor servants, but companions, 
and educated for that office (they do not say that men should be 
educated to be the companions of women). But since unculti- 
vated women are not suitable companions for cultivated men, and 
a man who feels interest in things above and beyond the family 
circle wishes that his companion shorn i sympathize with him in 


20 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


that interest, they therefore say, let women improve their under- 
standing and taste, acquire general knowledge, cultivate poetry, 
art, even coquet with science, and some stretch their liberality so 
far as to say, inform themselves on politics ; not as pursuits, but 
sufficiently to feel an interest in the subjects, and to be capable 
of holding a conversation on them with the husband, or at least 
of understanding and imbibing his wisdom. Very agreeable to 
him, no doubt, but unfortunately the reverse of improving. It is 
from having intellectual communion only with those to whom they 
can lay down the law, that so few men continue to advance in 
wisdom beyond the first stages. The most eminent men cease to 
improve if they associate only with disciples. When they have 
overtopped those who immediately surround them, if they wish 
for further growth, they must seek for others of their own stature 
to consort with. The mental companionship which is improving 
is communion between active minds, not mere contact between an 
active mind and a passive. This inestimable advantage is even 
now enjoyed when a strong-minded man and a strong-minded 
woman are, by a rare chance, united ; and would be had far 
oftener, if education took the same pains to form strong-minded 
women which it takes to prevent them from being formed. The 
modern, and what are regarded as the improved and enlightened 
modes of education of women, abjure, as far as words go, an edu- 
cation of mere show, and profess to aim at solid instruction, but 
mean by that expression superficial information on solid subjects. 
Except accomplishments, which are now generally regarded as to 
be taught well, if taught at all, nothing is taught to women thor- 
oughly. Small portions only of what it is attempted to teach thor- 
oughly to boys are the whole of what it is intended or desired to 
teach to women. What makes intelligent beings is the power of 
thought ; the stimuli which call forth that power are the interest 
and dignity of thought itself, and a field for its practical applica- 
tion. Both motives are cut off from those who are told from 
infancy that thought, and all its greater applications, are other 
people’s business, while theirs is to make themselves agreeable to 
Ather people, High mental powers in women will be but an ex 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


21 


ceptional accident, until every career is open to them, and until 
they, as well as men, are educated for themselves and for the 
world, — not one sex for the other. 

In what we have said on the effect of the inferior position of 
women, combined with the present constitution of married life, we 
have thus far had in view only the most favorable cases, those in 
which there is some real approach to that union and blending of 
characters and of lives which the theory of the relation contem- 
plates as its ideal standard. But if we look to the great major- 
ity of cases, the effect of women’s legal inferiority on the charac- 
ter both of women and of men must be painted in far darker col- 
ors. We do not speak here of the grosser brutalities, nor of the 
man’s power to seize on the woman’s earnings, or compel her to 
live with him against her will. We do not address ourselves to 
any one who requires to have it proved that these things should 
be remedied. We suppose average cases, in which there is neither 
complete union nor complete disunion of feelings and of charac- 
ter ; and we affirm that in such cases the influence of the depend- 
ence on the woman’s side is demoralizing to the character of 
both. 

The common opinion is, that, whatever may be the case with 
the intellectual, the moral influence of women over men is almost 
always salutary. It is, we are often told, the great counteractive 
of selfishness. However the case may be as to personal influ- 
ence, the influence of the position tends eminently to promote 
selfishness. The most insignificant of men, the man who can ob- 
tain influence or consideration nowhere else, finds one place where 
he is chief and head. There is one person, often greatly his supe- 
rior in understanding, who is obliged to consult him, and whom 
he is not obliged to consult. He is judge, magistrate, ruler, over 
their joint concerns ; arbiter of all differences between them. The 
justice or conscience to which, her appeal must be made is his jus- 
tice and conscience ; it is his to hold the balance and adjust the 
scales between his ow T n claims or wishes and those of another. 
He is how the only tribunal, in civilized life, in ^hich the same 
person is judge and party. A generous mind, in such a situation, 


22 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


makes the balance incline against its own side, and gives the. 
other not less, but more than a fair equality ; and thus the 
weaker side may be enabled to turn the very fact of dependence 
into an instrument of power, and, in default of justice, take an un- 
generous advantage of generosity ; rendering the unjust power, to 
those who make an unselfish use of it, a torment and a burthen. 
But how is it when average men are invested with this power, 
without reciprocity and without responsibility ? Give such a man 
the idea that he is first in law and in opinion, — that to will is 
his part, and hers to submit ; it is absurd to suppose that this 
idea merely glides over his mind, without sinking into it, or hav- 
ing any effect on his feelings and practice. The propensity to 
make himself the first object of consideration, and others at most 
the second, is not so rare as to be wanting where everything 
seems purposely arranged for permitting its indulgence. If there 
is any self-will in the man, he becomes either the conscious or 
unconscious despot of his household. The wife, indeed, often suc- 
3eeds in gaining her objects, but it is by some of the many various 
forms of indirectness and management. 

Thus the position is corrupting equally to both ; in the one 
it produces the vices of power, in the other those of artifice. 
Women, in their present physical and moral state, having stronger 
impulses, would naturally be franker and more direct than men ; 
yet all the old saws and traditions represent them as artful and 
dissembling. Why ? Because their only way to their objects is 
by indirect paths. In all countries where women have strong 
wishes and active minds, this consequence is inevitable ; and if it 
is less conspicuous in England than in some other places, it is 
because English women, saving occasional exceptions, have ceased 
to have either strong wishes or active minds. 

We are not now speaking of cases in which there is anything 
leserving the name of strong affection on both sides. That, 
where it exists, is too powerful a principle not to modify greatly 
the bad influences of the situation ; it seldom, however, destroys 
them entirely Much oftener the bad influences are too strong for 
thf* affection, and destroy it. The highest order of durable and 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


23 


happy attachments would be a hundred times more frequent than 
they are, if the affection which the two sexes sought from one 
another were that genuine friendship which only exists between 
equals in privileges as in faculties. But with regard to what is 
common!}" called affection in married life, — the habitual and 
almost mechanical feeling of kindliness and pleasure in each oth- 
er’s society, which generally grows up between persons who con- 
stantly live together, unless there is actual dislike, — there is noth- 
ing in this to contradict or qualify the mischievous influence of 
the unequal relation. Such feelings often exist between a sal- 
tan and his favorites, between a master and his servants ; they 
are merely examples of the pliability of human nature, which 
accommodates itself, in some degree, even to the worst circum- 
stances, and the commonest nature always the most easily. 

With respect to the influence personally exercised by women over 
men, it, no doubt, renders them less harsh and brutal ; in ruder 
times, it was often the only softening influence to which they were 
accessible. But the assertion that the wife’s influence renders 
the man less selfish contains, as things now are, fully as irfuch 
error as truth. Selfishness towards the wife herself, and towards 
those in whom she is interested, the children, though favored by 
their dependence, the wife’s influence no doubt tends to counter- 
act. But the general effect on him of her character, so long as 
her interests are concentrated in the family, tends but to substi- 
tute for individual selfishness a family selfishness, wearing an 
amiable guise, and putting on the mask of duty. How rarely is 
the wife’s influence on the side of public virtue ! how rarely does 
it do otherwise than discourage any effort of principle by which 
the private interests or worldly vanities of the family can be ex- 
pected to suffer ! Public spirit, sense of duty towards the public 
good, is, of all virtues, as women are now educated and situated, 
the most rarely to be found among them ; they have seldom even, 
what in men is often a partial substitute for public spirit, a sense 
of personal honor connected with any public duty. Many a man, 
whom no money or personal flattery would have bought, has bar- 
tered his political opinions against a title or invitations for his 


•24 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


wife ; and a still greater number are made mere hunters after the 
puerile vanities of society, because their wives value them. As 
for opinions, in Catholic countries, the wife’s influence is another 
name for that of the priest ; he gives her, in the hopes and emo- 
tions connected with a future life, a consolation for the sufferings 
and disappointments which are her ordinary lot in this. Else- 
where, her weight is thrown into the scale either of the most 
commonplace, or of the most outwardly prosperous opinions . 
either those by which censure will be escapdd, or by which 
worldly advancement is likeliest to be procured. In England the 
wife’s influence is usually on the illiberal and anti-popular side ; 
this is generally the gaining side for personal interest and vanity ; 
and what to her is the democracy or liberalism in which she has 
no part — which leaves her the Pariah it found her ? The man 
himself, when he marries, usually declines into conservatism ; 
begins to sympathize with the holders of power more than with 
the victims, and thinks it his part to be on the side of authority. 
As to mental progress, except those vulgarer attainments by which 
vanity or ambition are promoted, there is generally an end to it 
in a man who marries a woman mentally his inferior ; unless, in- 
deed, he is unhappy in marriage, or becomes indifferent. From a 
man of twenty-five or thirty, after he is married, an experienced 
observer seldom expects any further progress in mind or feelings. 
It is rare that the progress already made is maintained. Any 
spark of the mens divinior , which might otherwise have spread 
and become a flame, seldom survives for any length of time unex- 
tinguished. For a mind which learns to be satisfied with what it 
already is, which does not incessantly look forward to a degree 
of improvement not yet reached, becomes relaxed, self-indulgent, 
and loses the spring and tension which maintain it even at the 
point already attained. And there is no fact in human nature to 
which experience bears more invariable testimony than to this; 
that all social or sympathetic influences which do not raise up 
pull down ; if they do not tend to stimulate and exalt the mind, 
they tend to vulgarize it. 

For the interest, therefore, not only of women, but of men, and 
of human improvement, in the widest sense, the Emancipation of 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


25 


women, which the modern world often boasts of having effected, 
and for which credit is sometimes given to civilization, and some- 
times to Christianity, cannot stop where it is. If it were either 
necessary or just that one portion of mankind should remain men- 
tally and spiritually only half developed, the development of the 
other portion ought to have been made, as far as possible, inde- 
pendent of their influence. Instead of this, they have become the 
most intimate, and, it may now be said, the only intimate associates 
of those to whom yet they are sedulously kept inferior ; and 
have been raised just high enough to drag the others down to 
themselves. 

We have left behind a host of vulgar objections, either as not 
worthy of an answer, or as answered by the general course of our 
remarks. A few words, however, must be said on one plea, 
which, in England, is made much use of, for giving an unselfish 
air to the upholding of selfish privileges, and which, with unob- 
serving, unreflecting people, passes for much more than it is worth. 
Women, it is said, do not desire, do not seek, what is called their 
emancipation. On the contrary, they generally disown such 
claims when made in their behalf, and fall with acharnement upon 
any one of themselves who identifies herself with their common 
cause. 

Supposing the fact to be true in the fullest extent ever asserted, 
if it proves that European women ought to remain as they are, it 
proves exactly the same with respect to Asiatic women ; for they, 
too, instead of murmuring at their seclusion, and at the restraint 
imposed upon them, pride themselves on it, and are astonished at 
the effrontery of women who receive visits from male acquaint- 
ances, and are seen in the streets unveiled. Habits of submission 
make men, as well as women, servile-minded. The vast popula- 
tion of Asia do not desire or value — probably would not accept 
— political liberty, nor the savages of the forest civilization ; 
which does not prove that either of those things is undesirable for 
them, or that they will not, at some future time, enjoy it. Cus- 
tom hardens human beings to any kind of degradation, by deaden- 
ing the part of their nature which would resist it. And the case 


26 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


of women is, in this respect, even, a peculiar one, for no other in- 
ferior caste that we have heard of have been taught to regard 
their degradation as their honor. The argument, however, implies 
a secret consciousness that the alleged preference of women for 
their dependent state is merely apparent, and arises from their 
being allowed no choice ; for, if the preference be natural, there 
can be no necessity for enforcing it by law. To make laws com- 
pelling people to follow their inclination, has not hitherto been 
thought necessary by any legislator. The plea that women do not 
desire any change is the same that has been urged, times out of 
mind, against the proposal of abolishing any social evil, — “ there 
is no complaint ; ” which is generally not true, and, when true, only 
so because there is not that hope of success, without which com- 
plaint seldom makes itself audible to unwilling ears. How does 
the objector know that women do not desire equality and freedom ? 
He never knew a woman who did not, or would not, desire it for 
herself individually. It would be very simple to suppose that, if 
they do desire it, they will say so. Their position is like that of 
the tenants or laborers who vote against their own political 
interests to please their landlords or employers ; with the unique 
addition that submission is inculcated on them from childhood, as 
the peculiar attraction and grace of their character. They are 
taught to think that, to repel actively even an admitted injustice, 
done to themselves, is somewhat unfeminine, and had better be 
left to some male friend or protector. To be accused of rebelling 
against anything which admits of being called an ordinance of 
society, they are taught to regard as an imputation of a serious 
offence, to say the least, against the proprieties of their sex. It 
requires unusual moral courage, as well as disinterestedness, in a 
woman, to express opinions favorable to women’s enfranchisement, 
until, at least, there is some prospect of obtaining it. The com* 
fort of her individual life, and her social consideration, usually 
depend on the good will of those who hold the undue power ; and 
to possessors of power any complaint, however bitter, of the mis- 
use of it, is a less flagrant act of insubordination than to protest 
against the power itself. The professions of women in this matter 
remind us> of the state offenders of old, who, on the point of exe- 


ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN. 


27 


cution, used tc protest their love and devotion to the sovereign by 
whose unjust mandate they suffered. Griselda herself might be 
matched from the speeches put by Shakspeare into the mouths of 
male victims of kingly caprice and tyranny ; the Duke of Buck- 
ingham, for example, in “ Henry the Eighth,” and even Wolsey. 
The literary class of women, especially in England, are ostenta- 
tious in disclaiming the desire for equality of citizenship, and pro- 
claiming their complete satisfaction with the place which society 
assigns to them ; exercising in this, as in many other respects, a 
most noxious influence over the feelings and opinions of men, who 
unsuspectingly accept the servilities of toadyism as concessions to 
the force of truth, not considering that it is the personal interest 
of these women to profess whatever opinions they expect will be 
agreeable to men. It is not among men of talent, sprung from the 
people, and patronized and flattered by the aristocracy, that we 
look for the leaders of a democratic movement. Successful lite- 
rary women are just as unlikely to prefer the cause of women to 
their own social consideration. They depend on men’s opinion 
for their literary as well as for their feminine successes ; and such 
is their bad opinion of men, that they believe that there is not 
more than one in ten thousand who does not dislike and fear 
strength, sincerity, or high spirit, in a woman. They are, there- 
fore, anxious to earn pardon and toleration, for whatever of these 
qualities their writings may exhibit on other subjects, by a studied 
display of submission on this : that they may give no occasion 
for vulgar men to say — what nothing will prevent vulgar men 
from saying that learning makes women unfeminine, and that 
literary ladies are likely to be bad wives. 


■v\ro]vr-A.3sr 



OF MISSOURI. 


Mrs. FRANCIS MINOR, President. 

Mrs. BEVERLY ALLEN, Vice-President. 

Mrs. WM. T. HAZARD, Corresponding Secretary. 
Mrs. GEO. D. HALL, Recording Secretary. 

Mrs. NATHAN STEVENS, Treasurer. 

St. Louis, Missouri. 


To the General Assembly of the State of Missouri : 

Gentlemen : 

The undersigned men and women of Missouri, believing that 
all citizens who are taxed for the support of the Government and 
subject to its laws, should have a voice in the making of those 
laws, and the selection of their rulers ; that, as the possession of the 
ballot ennobles and elevates the character of man, so, in like 
manner, it would ennoble and elevate that of woman, by giving her 
a direct and personal interest in the affairs of Government ; and, 
further, believing that the spirit of the age, as well as every consid- 
eration of justice and equity, require that tlie ballot should be 
extended to woman, do unite in praying that an amendment to the 
Constitution may be proposed, striking out the word “ male,” and 
extending to women the right of suffrage. 

And, as in duty bound, your petitioners will ever pray. 


Copies of Petition, and Information furnished upon addressing’ 
either of above named officers. 


Formation of Auxiliary Associations in every county requested. 
Petitions when completely signed to be returned to the head office. 


Grand Opening of Spring and Summer Fashions 

AT 

MME. DEMOREST’S 

EMPORIUM OF FASHIONS, 473 Broadway, New York. 

Elegantly Trimmed Patterns of all the Latest and most Reliable Styles of 
Paris Fashions for Ladies’ and Children’s Dress. 

Plain or trimmed for ladies' and children’s dress, either single or by 
the set ; most of the ladies’ patterns, 30 cents each ; children’s 15 cents ; 
trimmed, double the above prices. 

Ladies and dressmakers at a distance may rely on each pattern being 
cut with accuracy and an exact counterpart of the shapes direct from 
the acknowledged and best sources of fashionable elegance. 

Patterns sent postage free on receipt of the amount. 

The plain patterns are always included and sent with the trimmed 
patterns without extra charge. 

Dressmaking* in all its branches, waists and jackets cut and 
basted, waist patterns cut to fit the form with accuracy and elegance at 
25 cents. 

Semi-Annual Bulletins of Fashions, elegantly colored, 
$2 ; with ten full-sized Patterns, 50 cents extra. Postage free. 

Combination Suspender and Shoulder Brace. — Ex- 
pands the chest and lungs, and encourages a graceful position of the 
body. Ladies’, $1, $9 per dozen ; children’s 75 cents, $6 per dozen 
- French Corsets on hand, or made to measure. The most per- 
fect shapes made in the very best manner, and of very superior mate- 
rials. Corded, $5, $51 per dozen; Fine Coutille, $7, $66 per dozen ; 
Feathered, each, $1 extra. 

Demorest’s Monthly Magazine, and Mane. Demor- 
est’s Mirror of Fashions, combining Original Stories, Music, 
Poetry, the Fashions, and other useful and entertaining Literature. 
Single copies, 30 cents ; yearly, $3, with a valuable premium. 


NEW YORK 

MEDICAL COLLEGE FOR WOMEN. 

Office, 361 West 34th street, N. Y. Feb . 11, 1868. 

Mrs. C. S. Lozier, M.D., Dean op the “ N. Y. Medical College and 
Hospital for Women and Children,” desires in this way to ask assistance 
from any of our citizens, men or women, to purchase a desirable build- 
ing and grounds in the upper part of this city, offered to the Board of 
Trustees for $31,000. They have about $15,000 of the amount. Any 
one able to help them to secure this property either by donation, or loan 
without interest, will forward a noble cause. Apply or write to Mrs. 
C. F. Wells, Secretary of the Board of Trustees, No. 389 Broadway, 
firm of Fowler & Wells. 


THE ORfJAV 


r TTTT7 -Kr * mm-m THE ORGAN OP 

THE NATIONAL PARTY of NEW AM’F’RTi"' a V . 

dividual Rights and ReTpot^MUties ’ baSed oa 1 

Devoted to Principle not Policy, Justice not Favors. 

WOMFM he Tk R i gh D? ? nd Noth 'ng More. 
WOMEN-Their Rights and Nothing Less. 

1 . WILL DISCUSS 

stl sd° n; Personal Purit y; J ^o e ve?oTan\s B we a n e a r S God S: ScieDCe “ 0t S "^« 

Fact. no 

Knlt^ 

introduce to every family tS ’ whlch even Religious Newspaper: 

SAr°v ’ AmfriS nlTo^lr^ed^by Europi* C QOLD N nke COm (“« rCial and Financia 
SALE; Greenbacks FOR MONEY • An Am^^Pa 1 0U * £ otton and Corn, FOR 

ducts and Labor Free ; Foreign ^ f American Pro- 

Immigrants ; Atlantic and Pacific Oceans for AMERrc W°i? U °T S to Artisana and 
or American Goods in American RnttPP? ^ Steamships and Shinnincr 

World; Wall Street emancipated* fmm^Banli of^Kn^lirid the A Fi ““<=•“> Centre Ttlfe 
•can Bills ; The Credit Fonder and Credit MoKA? Amori « an Cash for Amer- 
Resuscitate the South and our Minina- Interests and t n*pl ^ e ! n, f ? r 5 a P^ ai Mobilized to 
to Ocean, from Omaha to San Fran^ Cou,lt 'T from Ocean 

Cold and Silver Bullion to Sell to Foreigners at'tKe 1 p*? r ’ m °m Cott on, more 
Naturalized Citizens Demand a Penny Ocean Posta^e^?^?™”^ 8, .J 6 " Milliona of 
°aL L ^\ Congress vote One Hundred 


\ of Labor. If Congress vote O ne if ii n dr e d° an *d n t v ? trei jgt**en the Brotherhoo 

T and Freedman’s Bureau for the Blacks C S Mlll T* £ r , a 8tandIa « 

*• to keep bright the Chain of Frien^hin’iS^l S5L' ¥!?.£»• “ «<>? %«» 


Army f 


I Whites to keep bright theClminof Friendship' between thenvamTthd^ Fatherland? 

1 ELIZABETH CADY STANTON i 

PARKER PILLSBURY, ’ [ Editors 

_ . SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Prophietob 

lo whom address all business Letters, 37 PARK ROW New Vn-i- n-, ’ 

I OneXyl 6 “ title the 
bend in your Subscription— THE REVOLUTION PnbHaL-A 
I the Great Organ of the Age. “ ’ ubllshed onc ® a week, 

TRACTS for Sale at the Office of “THE REVOLUTION ” 

Enfrauchisernent of Women. By Mrs. John Stuart Mill 
Suffrage for Women. By John Stuart Mill, M.P. 

Freedom for Women. By Wendell Philips! 

Public Function of Women. By Theodiro Parker 
Woman and her Wishes. By Col. T. W. Higginson 
Responsibilities of Women. By Mrs. C. I. If. Nichols 
Woman s Duty to Vote. By Henry Ward Beecher 
Shi MW 1 ,? f nffr 5S- *. By Elizabeth Cady Stanton. 

The Mortality of Nations. By Parker Pillsburv. 
fihmfrn w tS ^ Women B y George William Curtis. 

Th J ir 1 Wom £ n ^ °t e ? Affirmative Testimonials of Sundry Persons 
The Kansas Campaign. By George Francis Train ^ 


J 





