


Ain’t I a Woman 

Black Women and Feminism 


bell hooks 




Growing up I knew that I wanted to be a writer. From 
girlhood on books had offered me visions of new worlds 
different from the one that was most familiar to me. Like 
exotic and strange new lands, books brought adventure, new 
ways to think and be. Most importantly they brought a 
different perspective, one that almost always forced me out of 
my comfort zones. I was awed that books could offer a 
different standpoint, that words on the page could transform 
and change me, change my mind. During my undergraduate 
college years, contemporary feminist movement was 
challenging sexist-defined roles, calling for an end to 
patriarchy. In those heady days, women’s liberation was the 
name given to this amazing new way of thinking about 
gender. As I had never felt like I had a place in traditional 
sexist notions of what a female should be and do, I was eager 
to participate in women’s liberation, wanting to create a space 
of freedom for myself, for the women I loved, for all women. 

My intense engagement with feminist consciousness raising 
compelled me to confront the reality of race, class, and gender 
difference. Just as I had rebelled against sexist notions of a 
woman’s place, I challenged notions of women’s place and 
identity within women’s liberation circles, I could not find a 
place for myself within the movement. My experience as a 
young black female was not acknowledged. My voice and the 
voices of women like me were not heard. Most importantly, 
the movement had exposed how little I knew about myself, 
my place in society. 




I could not truly belong in the movement so long as I could 
not make my voice heard. Before I could demand that others 
listen to me I had to listen to myself, to discover my identity. 
Taking women’s studies courses had shined a spotlight on 
society’s expectations of females. I had learned many new 
facts about gender differences, about sexism and patriarchy 
and the ways these systems shaped female roles and identity, 
but I learned little about the role black females were assigned 
in our culture. To understand myself as a black female, to 
understand the place set for black females in this society, I 
had to explore beyond the classroom, beyond the many 
treatises and books my fellow white female comrades were 
creating to explain women’s liberation, to offer new and 
alternative radical ways of thinking about gender and 
women’s place. 

To forge a plaee for black females in this revolutionary 
movement for gender justice, I had to deepen my 
understanding of our place in the large society. Even though I 
was learning so much about sexism and the ways sexist 
thinking shaped female identity, I was not being taught about 
the ways race shaped female identity. In classes and in 
consciousness-raising groups when I called attention to the 
differences created in our lives by race and racism, I was 
often treated with disdain by white female comrades who 
were eager to bond around shared notions of sisterhood. And 
there I was, this bold young black female from rural 
Kentucky, insisting that there were major differences shaping 
the experiences of black and white women. My efforts to 
understand those differences, to explain and communicate 
their meaning, lay the groundwork for the writing of Ain’t I a 
Woman: Black Women and Feminism. 



I began researching and writing during my undergraduate 
years. It amazes me that more than forty years have passed 
since I began the work. Initially my search for a publisher led 
to rejection. In those days no one really imagined there to be 
an audience for a work about black women. In general, black 
folks then were far 

more likely to denounce women’s liberation, seeing it as a 
white woman thing. As a consequence, black female 
individuals who eagerly embraced the movement were often 
isolated and estranged from other black folks. We were 
usually the only black person in predominately white circles. 
And any talk of race was viewed as shifting the attention 
away from the politics of gender. No wonder then that black 
females had to create a separate and distinct body of work 
that would bring together our understanding of race, class, 
and gender. 

Mating radical feminist politics with my urge to write, I 
decided early on that I wanted to create books that could be 
read and understood across different class boundaries. In 
those days feminist thinkers grappled with the question of 
audience: who did we want to reach with our work? To reach 
a broader audience required the writing of work that was clear 
and concise, that could be read by readers who had never 
attended college or even finished high school. Imagining my 
mother as my ideal audience—the reader I most wanted to 
convert to feminist thinking—I cultivated a way of writing 
that could be understood by readers from diverse class 
backgrounds. 

Finishing the writing ofAin’t I a Woman, then years later 
seeing the work published in my late twenties, marked the 
culmination of my own struggles to be fully self-actualized, to 


be a free and independent woman. When I entered my first 
women’s studies class, taught by the white woman writer 
Tillie Olson, and listened to her talk about the world of 
women struggling to work and parent, women who were often 
held captive by male domination, I cried as she cried. We 
read her seminal work I Stand Here Ironing and I began to see 
my mama and women like her, all raised in the fifties, in a 
new light. Mama married young, while still in her teens, had 
babies young, and though she would never have called herself 
a woman’s libber she had experienced the pain of sexist 
domination, and that led her to encourage all her daughters, 
all six of us, to educate ourselves so that we would be able to 
take care of our material and economic needs and never be 
dependent on any man. Sure we were to find a man and 
marry, but not before we learned to take care of ourselves. 
Mama, who was herself held captive by the bonds of 
patriarchy, encouraged us to break free. It is fitting then 
that an image of Rosa Bell, my mother, now graces the cover 
of this new edition. 

More than any other book I have written, my relationship to 
my mother informed the writing of Ain’t I a Woman and 
inspired me. Written when contemporary feminist movement 
was still young, when I was young, this early work has many 
flaws and imperfections, yet it continues to serve as a 
powerful catalyst for readers who are eager to explore the 
roots of black women and feminism. Even though mama has 
died, no day passes that I do not think of her and all the black 
women like her, who with no political movement supporting 
them, no theory of how to be feminist, provided practical 
blueprints for liberation, offering generations coming after 
them the gift of choice, freedom, wholeness of mind, body, 
and being. 


Eight years ago, when I first began researeh for this book, 
discussions of “Black Women and Feminism” or “Racism and 
Feminism” were uncommon. Friends and strangers were 
quick to question and ridicule my concern with the lot of 
black women in the Flnited States. I can remember a dinner 
where I talked about the book and one person, in a big 
booming voice choking with laughter exclaimed, “What is 
there to say about black women!” Others joined the laughter. 
I had written in the manuscript that the existence of black 
women was often forgotten, that we were often ignored or 
dismissed, and my lived experience as I shared the ideas in 
this book demonstrated the truth of this assertion. 

In most stages of my work I had the help and support of Nate, 
my friend and companion. It was he who said to me when I 
first returned home from libraries angry and disappointed that 
there were so few books about black women that I should 
write one. He also searched for background information and 
assisted me in a number of ways. A tremendous source of 
encouragement and support for my work came from fellow 
black women workers at the Berkeley Telephone Office in 
1973-74. When I left there to attend graduate school in 
Wisconsin, I 

lost contact with these women. But their energy, their sense 
that there was much that needed to be said about black 
women, and their belief that “I” could say it, has sustained 
me. During the publication process, Ellen Herman of South 
End Press has been a great help. Our relationship has been 
political; we have worked to bridge the gap between public 
and private, making the eontact between writer and publisher 
an affirming experience rather than a de-humanizing one. 

This book is dedicated to Rosa Bell Watkins who taught me, 
and all her daughters, that Sisterhood empowers women by 
respeeting, protecting, encouraging, and loving us. 



Introduction 


At a time in American history when black women in every 
area of the country might have joined together to demand 
social equality for women and a recognition of the impact of 
sexism on our social status, we were by and large silent. Our 
silence was not merely a reaction against white women 
liberationists or a gesture of solidarity with black male 
patriarchs. It was the silence of the oppressed—that profound 
silence engendered by resignation and acceptance of one’s lot. 
Contemporary black women could not join together to fight 
for women’s rights because we did not see “womanhood” as 
an important aspect of our identity. Racist, sexist socialization 
had conditioned us to devalue our femaleness and to regard 
race as the only relevant label of identification. In other 
words, we were asked to deny a part of ourselves—and we 
did. Consequently, when the women’s movement raised the 
issue of sexist oppression, we argued that sexism was 
insignificant in light of the harsher, more brutal reality of 
racism. We were afraid to acknowledge that sexism could be 
just as oppressive as racism. We clung to the hope that 
liberation from racial oppression would be all that was 
necessary for us to be free. We were a new generation 
of black women who had been taught to submit, to accept 
sexual inferiority, and to be silent. 

Unlike us, black women in 19th century America were 
conscious of the fact that true freedom entailed not just 
liberation from a sexist social order that systematically denied 
all women full human rights. These black women participated 


in both the struggle for racial equality and the women’s rights 
movement. When the question was raised as to whether or not 
black female participation in the women’s rights movement 
was a detriment to the struggle for racial equality, they argued 
that any improvement in the social status of black women 
would benefit all black people. Addressing the World 
Congress of Representative Women in 1893, Anna Cooper 
spoke on the status of black women; 

The higher fruits of civilization cannot be extemporized, 
neither can they be developed normally in the brief space of 
thirty years. It requires the long and painful growth of 
generations. Yet all through the darkest period of the colored 
women’s oppression in this country her yet unwritten history 
is full of heroic struggle, a struggle against fearful and 
overwhelming odds, that often ended in a horrible death; to 
maintain and protect that which woman holds dearer than life. 
The painful, patient, and silent toil of mothers to gain a fee, 
simple title to the bodies of their daughters, the despairing 
fight, as of an entrapped tigress, to keep hallowed their own 
persons, would furnish material for epics. That more went 
down under the flood than stemmed the current is not 
extraordinary. The majority of our women are not 
heroines—but I do not know that a majority of any race of 
women are heroines. It is enough for me to know that while in 
the eyes of the highest tribunal in America she was deemed 
no more than chattel, an irresponsible thing, a dull block, to 
be drawn hither or thither at the volition of an owner, the 
Afro-American woman maintained ideals of womanhood 
unashamed by any ever conceived. Resting or fermenting in 
untutored minds, such ideals could not claim a hearing at the 
bar of the nation. The white woman could at least plead for 
her own emancipation; the black women doubly enslaved, 
could but suffer and struggle and be silent. 

For the first time ever in American history, black women like 
Mary Church Terrell, Sojourner Truth, Anna Cooper, 
Amanda Berry Smith and others broke through the long years 
of silence and began to articulate and record their 
experiences. In particular they emphasized the “female” 
aspect of their being which caused their lot to be different 
from that of the black male, a fact that was made evident 
when white men supported giving black men the vote while 
leaving all women disenfranchised. Horace Greeley and 
Wendell Phillips called it “the Negro’s hour” but in actuality 
what was spoken of as black suffrage was black male 
suffrage. By supporting black male suffrage and denouncing 
white women’s rights advocates, white men revealed the 
depths of their sexism—a sexism that was at that brief 
moment in American history greater than their racism. Prior 
to white male support of suffrage for black men, white 
women activists had believed it would further their cause to 
ally themselves with black political activists, but when it 
seemed black men might get the vote while they remained 
disenfranchised, political solidarity with black people was 
forgotten and they urged white men to allow racial solidarity 
to overshadow their plans to support black male suffrage. 

As the racism of white women’s rights advocates surfaced, 
the fragile bond between themselves and black activists was 
broken. Even though Elizabeth Stanton in her article “Women 
and Black Men,” published in the 1869 issue of the 
Revolution, attempted to show that the republican cry for 
“manhood suffrage” was aimed at creating antagonism 
between black men and all women, the break between the two 


groups could not be mended. While many blaek male politieal 
aetivists sympathized with the cause of women’s rights 
advoeates, they were not willing to lose their own chance to 
gain the vote. Blaek women were placed in a double bind; to 
support women’s suffrage would imply that they were allying 
themselves with white women activists who had publicly 
revealed their racism, but to support only black male suffrage 
was to endorse a patriarehal social order that would grant 
them no political voice. The more radical black women 
aetivists demanded that blaek men and all women be given 
the vote. Sojourner Truth was the most out-spoken black 
women on this issue. She argued publicly in favor of women 
gaining the right to vote and emphasized that 
without this right black women would have to submit to the 
will of black men. Her famous statement, “there is a great stir 
about colored men getting their rights, but not a word about 
the eolored woman; and if eolored men get their rights, and 
not eolored women theirs, you see the eolored men will be 
masters over the women, and it will be just as bad as it was 
before,” reminded the American public that sexist oppression 
was as real a threat to the freedom of black women as racial 
oppression. But despite protests from white and black women 
activists sexism carried the day and blaek men reeeived the 
vote. 

Although black women and men had struggled equally for 
liberation during slavery and mueh of the Reeonstruction era, 
blaek male politieal leaders upheld patriarehal values. As 
black men advanced in all spheres of American life, they 
eneouraged black women to assume a more subservient role. 
Gradually the radical revolutionary spirit that had 
eharaeterized the intellectual and political contribution of 
black women in the 19th century was quelled. A definite 

change in the role played by blaek women in the politieal and 
soeial affairs of blaek people oeeurred in the 20th eentury. 
This ehange was indieative of an overall deeline in the efforts 
of all Ameriean women to effeet radieal soeial reform. When 
the women’s rights movement ended in the twenties, the 
voiees of blaek women liberationists were stilled. The war 
had stripped the movement of its earlier fervor. While blaek 
women partieipated equally with blaek men in the struggle for 
survival by entering the work foree whenever possible, they 
did not advoeate an end to sexism. Twentieth eentury blaek 
women had learned to aeeept sexism as natural, a given, a faet 
of life. Had surveys been taken among blaek women in the 
thirties and forties and had they been asked to name the most 
oppressive foree in their lives, raeism and not sexism would 
have headed the list. 

When the eivil rights movement began in the 50s, blaek 
women and men again joined together to struggle for raeial 
equality, yet blaek female aetivists did not reeeive the publie 
aeelaim awarded blaek male leaders. Sexist role patterning 
was as mueh the norm in blaek eommunities as in any other 
Ameriean eommunity. It was an aceepted faet among blaek 
people 

that the leaders who were most revered and respeeted were 
men. Blaek aetivists defined freedom as gaining the right to 
partieipate as full eitizens in Ameriean eulture; they were not 
rejeeting the value system of that eulture. Consequently, they 
did not question the rightness of patriarehy. The 60s 
movement toward blaek liberation marked the first time blaek 
people engaged in a struggle to resist raeism in whieh elear 
boundaries were ereeted whieh separated the roles of women 
and men. Blaek male aetivists publicly acknowledged that 
they expeeted blaek women involved in the movement to 
conform to a sexist role pattern. They demanded that black 
women assume a subservient position. Black women were 
told that they should take care of household needs and breed 
warriors for the revolution. Toni Cade’s article “On the Issue 
of Roles” is one discussion of the sexist attitudes that 
prevailed in black organizations during the 60s: 

It would seem that every organization you can name has had 
to struggle at one time or another with seemingly mutinous 
eadres of women getting salty about having to man the 
telephones or fix the coffee while the men wrote the position 
papers and decided on policy. Some groups condescendingly 
alloted two or three slots in the executive order to women. 
Others encouraged the sisters to form a separate caueus and 
work out something that wouldn’t split the organization. 
Others got nasty and foreed the women to storm out to 
organize separate workshops. Over the years, things have sort 
of been eooled out. But I have yet to hear a eoolheaded 
analysis of just what any particular group’s stand is on the 
question. Invariably, I hear from some dude that Black 
women must be supportive and patient so that black men can 
regain their manhood. The notion of womanhood, they 
argue—and only if pressed to address themselves to the 
notion do they think of it or argue—is dependent on his 
defining his manhood. So the shit goes on. 

While some black women aetivists resisted the attempts of 
black men to coerce them into playing a seeondary role in the 
movement, others eapitulated to male demands for 
submission. What had begun as a movement to free all black 
people from racist oppression beeame a movement with its 
primary goal the establishment of blaek male patriarehy. It is 
not surprising that 
a movement so eoneerned with promoting the interests of 
blaek men should fail to draw any attention to the dual impaet 
of sexist and raeist oppression on the soeial status of blaek 
women. Blaek women had been asked to fade into the 
baekground—to allow the spotlight to shine solely on blaek 
men. That the blaek woman was vietimized by sexist and 
raeist oppression was seen as insignilieant, for woman’s 
suffering however great eould not take preeedenee over male 
pain. 

Ironieally, while the reeent women’s movement ealled 
attention to the faet that blaek women were dually vietimized 
by raeist and sexist oppression, white feminists tended to 
romantieize the blaek female experienee rather than diseuss 
the negative impaet of that oppression. When feminists 
aeknowledge in one breath that blaek women are vietimized 
and in the same breath emphasize their strength, they imply 
that though blaek women are oppressed they manage to 
eireumvent the damaging impaet of oppression by being 
strong—and that is simply not the ease. Usually, when people 
talk about the “strength” of blaek women they are referring to 
the way in whieh they pereeive blaek women eoping with 
oppression. They ignore the reality that to be strong in the 
faee of oppression is not the same as overeoming oppression, 
that enduranee is not to be eonfused with transformation. 
Frequently observers of the blaek female experienee eonfuse 
these issues. The tendeney to romantieize the blaek female 
experienee that began in the feminist movement was refleeted 
in the eulture as a whole. The stereotypieal image of the 
“strong” blaek woman was no longer seen as dehumanizing, it 
beeame the new badge of blaek female glory. When the 
women’s movement was at its peak and white women were 
rejeeting the role of breeder, burden bearer, and sex objeet. 
black women were celebrated for their unique devotion to the 
task of mothering; for their “innate” ability to bear 
tremendous burdens; and for their ever-increasing availability 
as sex object. We appeared to have been unanimously eleeted 
to take up where white women were leaving off. They got 
Ms. magazine; we got Essence. They got books discussing the 
negative impact of sexism on their lives; we got books 
arguing that blaek women had nothing to gain by women’s 
liberation. Black women were told that we should find our 
dignity not in liberation from sexist oppression but in how 
well we eould adjust, adapt, and cope. We had been asked to 
stand up and be congratulated for being “good little women” 
and then told to sit down and shut up. No one bothered to 
diseuss the way in which sexism operates both independently 
of and simultaneously with racism to oppress us. 

No other group in America has so had their identity socialized 
out of existenee as have black women. We are rarely 
recognized as a group separate and distinct from black men, 
or as a present part of the larger group “women” in this 
eulture. When black people are talked about, sexism militates 
against the acknowledgement of the interests of black women; 
when women are talked about raeism militates against a 
recognition of black female interests. When blaek people are 
talked about the foeus tends to be on black men; and when 
women are talked about the foeus tends to be on white 
women. No where is this more evident than in the vast body 
of feminist literature. A ease in point is the following passage 
describing white female reaetions to white male support of 
blaek male suffrage in the 19th century taken from William 
O’Neill’s book Everyone Was Brave: 


Their shocked disbelief that men would so humiliate them by 
supporting votes for Negroes but not for women demonstrated 
the limits of their sympathy for black men, even as it drove 
these former allies further apart. 

This passage fails to accurately register the sexual and racial 
differentiation which together make for the exclusion of black 
women. In the statement, “their shocked disbelief that men 
should so humiliate them by supporting votes for Negroes but 
not for women,” the word men in fact refers only to white 
men, the word Negroes refers only to black men, and the 
word women refers only to white women. The racial and 
sexual specificity of what is being referred to is conveniently 
left unacknowledged or even deliberately suppressed. 
Another example is from a more recent work by historian 
Barbara Berg, The Remembered Gate; Origins of American 
Feminism. Berg comments: 

... In their fight for the vote, women both ignored and 
compromised the principles of feminism. The complexities of 
American society at the turn of the century induced the 
suffragists to change the basis of their demand for the 
franchise. 

The women Berg refers to are white women yet she never 
states this. Throughout American history, the racial 
imperialism of whites has supported the custom of scholars 
using the term “women” even if they are referring solely to 
the experience of white women. Yet such a custom, whether 
practiced consciously or unconsciously, perpetuates racism in 
that it denies the existence of non-white women in America. 
It also perpetuates sexism in that it assumes that sexuality is 
the sole self-defining trait of white women and denies their 


racial identity. White women liberationists did not ehallenge 
this sexistraeist praetiee; they eontinued it. 

The most glaring example of their support of the exelusion of 
black women was revealed when they drew analogies 
between “women” and “blaeks” when what they were really 
eomparing was the soeial status of white women with that of 
blaek people. Like many people in our raeist soeiety, white 
feminists eould feel perfeetly eomfortable writing books or 
artieles on the “woman question” in whieh they drew 
analogies between “women” and “blaeks.” Sinee analogies 
derive their power, their appeal, and their very reason for 
being from the sense of two disparate phenomena having 
been brought eloser together, for white women to 
aeknowledge the overlap between the terms “blaeks” and 
“women” (that is the existenee of blaek women) would render 
this analogy unneeessary. By eontinuously making this 
analogy, they unwittingly suggest that to them the term 
“woman” is synonymous with “white women” and the term 
“blaeks” synonymous with “blaek men.” What this indieates 
is that there exists in the language of the very movement that 
is supposedly eoneemed with eliminating sexist oppression, a 
sexist-raeist attitude toward blaek women. Sexist-raeist 
attitudes are not merely present in the eonseiousness of men 
in Ameriean soeiety; they surfaee in all our ways of thinking 
and being. All too frequently in the women’s movement it 
was assumed one eould be free of sexist thinking by 
simply adopting the appropriate feminist rhetorie; it was 
further assumed that identifying oneself as oppressed freed 
one from being an oppressor. To a very grave extent sueh 
thinking prevented white feminists from understanding and 
overeoming their own sexist-raeist attitudes toward blaek 
women. They eould pay lip-serviee to the idea of sisterhood 



and solidarity between women but at the same time dismiss 
black women. 

Just as the 19th century conflict over black male suffrage 
versus woman suffrage had placed black women in a difficult 
position, contemporary black women felt they were asked to 
choose between a black movement that primarily served the 
interests of black male patriarchs and a women’s movement 
which primarily served the interests of racist white women. 
Their response was not to demand a change in these two 
movements and a recognition of the interests of black women. 
Instead the great majority of black women allied themselves 
with the black patriarchy they believed would protect their 
interests. A few black women chose to ally themselves with 
the feminist movement. Those who dared to speak publicly in 
support of women’s rights were attacked and criticized. Other 
black women found themselves in limbo, not wanting to ally 
themselves with sexist black men or racist white women. That 
black women did not collectively rally against the exclusion 
of our interests by both groups was an indication that 
sexist-racist socialization had effectively brainwashed us to 
feel that our interests were not worth fighting for, to believe 
that the only option available to us was submission to the 
terms of others. We did not challenge, question, or critique; 
we reacted. Many black women denounced women’s 
liberation as “white female foolishness.” Others reacted to 
white female racism by starting black feminist groups. While 
we denounced male concepts of black macho as disgusting 
and offensive, we did not talk about ourselves, about being 
black women, about what it means to be the victims of 
sexist-racist oppression. 

The most notable attempt by blaek women to artieulate their 
experienees, their attitudes toward woman’s role in soeiety, 
and the impaet of sexism on their lives was the anthology The 
Blaek Woman edited by Toni Cade. The dialogue ended 
there. The growing demand for literature about women 
ereated a market in whieh almost anything would sell or at 
least reeeive some attention. This was partieularly the case 
with literature about black women. The bulk of literature on 
black women that emerged as a consequence of the 
demanding market was thoroughly laden with sexist-racist 
assumptions. Black men who chose to write about black 
women did so in a predictably sexist manner. Many 
anthologies appeared with collections of material drawn from 
the writings of 19th century black women; these works were 
usually edited by white people. Gerda Lerner, a white women 
bom in Austria, edited Black Women in White America, A 
Documentary History and received a generous grant to aid her 
scholarship. While I think that the collection is an important 
work, it is significant that in our society white women are 
given grant money to do research on black women but I can 
find no instance where black women have received funds to 
research white women’s history. Since so much of the 
anthologized literature on black women emerges from 
academic circles, where the pressure to publish is 
omnipresent, I am inclined to wonder if scholars are 
motivated by a sincere interest in the history of black women 
or are merely responding to an available market. The 
tendency to anthologize writings by black women that are 
already available in other published works has become so 
much the norm that it causes me to wonder whether or not 
this trend also reflects an unwillingness on the part of scholars 
to deal with the black woman in a serious, critical, scholarly 
fashion. So frequently in the introductions to these works. 


authors would state that comprehensive studies of the social 
status of black women were needed but were yet to be 
written. I often wondered why no one was interested in 
writing such books. Joyce Ladner’s Tomorrow’s Tomorrow 
remains the only serious book-length study of the black 
female experience by a single author to be found on bookstore 
shelves in the women’s section. Occasionally, black women 
publish articles in journals on racism and sexism but seem 
reluctant to examine the impact of sexism on the black 
woman’s social status. Black women writers Alice Walker, 
Audre Lorde, Barbara Smith, and Cellestine Ware have been 
the most willing to place their writings in a feminist 
framework. 

When Michele Wallace’s book Black Macho and the Myth of 
the Superwoman appeared, it was heralded as the definitive 
feminist book on black women. Gloria Steinem is quoted on 
the cover as saying; 

What Sexual Politics was to the seventies, Michele Wallace’s 
book could be to the eighties. She crosses the sex-race barrier 
to make every reader understand the political and intimate 
truths of growing up black and female in America. 

Such a quote seems ironic in light of the fact that Wallace 
could not even discuss the social status of black women 
without first engaging in a lengthy diatribe about black men 
and white women. Curiously enough Wallace labels herself a 
feminist, even though she says very little about the impact of 
sexist discrimination and sexist oppression on the lives of 
black women nor does she discuss the relevance of feminism 
to black women. While the book is an interesting, provocative 
account of Wallace’s personal life that includes a very sharp 


and witty analysis of the patriarchal impulses of black male 
activists, it is neigher an important feminist work nor an 
important work about black women. It is important as a black 
woman’s story. All too often in our society, it is assumed that 
one can know all there is to know about black people by 
merely hearing the life story and opinions of one black 
person. Steinem makes such a narrowminded, and racist, 
assumption when she suggests that Wallace’s book has a 
similar scope as Kate Millett’s Sexual Politics. Millett’s book 
is a theoretical, anayltical examination of sexual politics in 
America that encompasses a discussion of the nature of sex 
role patterns, a discussion of their historical background, and 
a discussion of the pervasiveness of patriarchal values in 
literature. More than five hundred pages in length, it is not 
autobiographical and is in many ways extremely pedantic. 
One can only assume that Steinem believes that the American 
public can be informed about the sexual politics of black 
people by merely reading a discussion of the 60 s black 
movement, a cursory examination of the role of black women 
during slavery, and Michele Wallace’s life. While I do not 
wish to denigrate the value of Wallace’s work, I believe that it 
should be placed in a proper context. Usually, a book that is 
labeled 

feminist focuses primarily on some aspect of the “woman 
question.” Readers of Black Macho and the Myth of the 
Super-woman were primarily interested in the author’s 
comments about black male sexuality which comprised the 
main body of her book. Her short critique of the black female 
slave experience and their characteristic passive acceptance of 
sexism was largely ignored. 

Although the women’s movement motivated hundreds of 
women to write on the woman question, it failed to generate 


in depth critical analyses of the black female experience. 
Most feminists assumed that problems black women faced 
were caused by racism—not sexism. The assumption that we 
can divorce the issue of race from sex, or sex from race, has 
so clouded the vision of American thinkers and writers on the 
“woman” question that most discussions of sexism, sexist 
oppression, or woman’s place in society are distorted, biased, 
and inaccurate. We cannot form an accurate picture of 
woman’s status by simply calling attention to the role 
assigned females under patriarchy. More specifically, we 
cannot form an accurate picture of the status of black women 
by simply focusing on racial hierarchies. 

From the onset of my involvement with the women’s 
movement I was disturbed by the white women’s 
liberationists’ insistence that race and sex were two separate 
issues. My life experience had shown me that the two issues 
were inseparable, that at the moment of my birth, two factors 
determined my destiny, my having been born black and my 
having been born female. When I entered my first women’s 
studies class at Stanford University, in the early 70s, a class 
taught by a white woman, I attributed the absence of works 
written by or about black women to the professor having been 
conditioned as a white person in a racist society to ignore the 
existence of black women, not to her having been born 
female. During that time I expressed to white feminists my 
concern that so few black women were willing to support 
feminism. They responded by saying that they could 
understand the black woman’s refusal to involve herself in 
feminist struggle because she was already involved in the 
struggle to end racism. As I encouraged black 
women to become active feminists, I was told that we should 
not become “women’s libbers” because racism was the 


oppressive foree in our life—not sexism. To both groups I 
voieed my eonvietion that the struggle to end raeism and the 
struggle to end sexism were naturally intertwined, that to 
make them separate was to deny a basie truth of our 
existenee, that raee and sex are both immutable faeets of 
human identity. 

When I began the researeh for Ain’t I A Woman, my primary 
intent was to doeument the impaet of sexism on the soeial 
status of blaek women. I wanted to provide eonerete evidenee 
to refute the arguments of antifeminists who so loudly 
proelaimed that blaek women were not vietims of sexist 
oppression and were not in need of liberation. As the work 
progressed, I beeame inereasingly aware that I eould arrive at 
a thorough understanding of the blaek female experienee and 
our relationship to soeiety as a whole only by examining both 
the polities of raeism and sexism from a feminist perspeetive. 
The book then evolved into an examination of the impaet of 
sexism on the blaek woman during slavery, the devaluation of 
blaek womanhood, blaek male sexism, raeism within the 
reeent feminist movement, and the blaek woman’s 
involvement with feminism. It attempts to further the 
dialogue about the nature of the blaek woman’s experienee 
that began in 19th eentury Ameriea so as to move beyond 
raeist and sexist assumptions about the nature of blaek 
womanhood to arrive at the truth of our experienee. Although 
the foeus is on the blaek female, our struggle for liberation 
has signifioanee only if it takes plaee within a feminist 
movement that has as its fundamental goal the liberation of all 
people. 


Sexism and the Black 
Female Slave Experience 

In a retrospective examination of the black female slave 
experience, sexism looms as large as racism as an oppressive 
force in the lives of black women. Institutionalized sexism— 
that is, patriarchy—formed the base of the American social 
structure along with racial imperialism. Sexism was an 
integral part of the social and political order white colonizers 
brought with them from their European homelands, and it was 
to have a grave impact on the fate of enslaved black women. 
In its earliest stages, the slave trade focused primarily on the 
importation of laborers; the emphasis at that time was on the 
black male. The black female slave was not as valued as the 
black male slave. On the average, it cost more money to buy a 
male slave than a female slave. The scarcity of workers 
coupled with the relatively few numbers of black women in 
American colonies caused some white male planters to 
encourage, persuade, and coerce immigrant white females to 
engage in sexual relationships with black male slaves as a 
means of producing new workers. In Maryland, in the year 
1664, the first anti-amalgamation law was passed; it was 
aimed at curtailing sexual relationships between white women 
and enslaved black men. One part 
of the preamble of this document stated: 

That whatsoever freeborn woman shall intermarry with any 
slave, from and after the last day of the present assembly, 
shall serve the masters of such slaves during the life of her 
husband; and that all the issue of such free born women, so 
married shall be slaves as their fathers were. 

The most celebrated case of this time was that of Irish Nell, 
an indentured servant sold by Lord Baltimore to a southern 
planter who encouraged her to marry a black man named 
Butler. Lord Baltimore, on hearing of the fate of Irish Nell, 
was so appalled that white women were either by choice or 
coercion co-habiting sexually with black male slaves that he 
had the law repealed. The new law stated that the offspring of 
relationships between white women and black men would be 
free. As efforts on the part of outraged white men to curtail 
inter-racial relationships between black men and white 
women succeeded, the black female slave acquired a new 
status. Planters recognized the economic gain they could 
amass by breeding black slave women. The virulent attacks 
on slave importation also led to more emphasis on slave 
breeding. Unlike the offspring of relationships between black 
men and white women, the off-spring of any black slave 
woman regardless of the race of her mate would be legally 
slaves, and therefore the property of the owner to whom the 
female slave belonged. As the market value of the black 
female slave increased, larger numbers were stolen or 
purchased by white slave traders. 

White male observers of African culture in the 18th and 19th 
centuries were astounded and impressed by the African 
male’s subjugation of the African female. They were not 
accustomed to a patriarchal social order that demanded not 
only that women accept an inferior status, but that they 
participate actively in the community labor force. Amanda 
Berry Smith, a 19th eentury black missionary, visited African 
communities and reported on the eondition of African 
women; 

The poor women of Africa, like those of India, have a hard 
time. As a rule, they have all the hard work to do. They have 
to cut and carry all the wood, carry all the water on their 
heads, and plant all the rice. The men and boys cut and burn 
the bush, with the help of the women; but sowing the rice, and 
planting the cassava, the women have to do. 

You will often see a great, big man walking ahead with 
nothing in his hand but a cutlass (as they always earry that or 
a spear), and a woman, his wife, coming on behind with a 
great big child on her back, and a load on her head. 

No matter how tired she is, her lord would not think of 
bringing her a jar of water, to eook his supper with, or of 
beating the rice, no, she must do that. 

The African woman schooled in the art of obedience to a 
higher authority by the tradition of her society was probably 
seen by the white male slaver as an ideal subject for slavery. 
As mueh of the work to be done in the American colonies was 
in the area of hoe-agriculture, it undoubtedly occurred to 
slavers that the Afriean female, accustomed to performing 
arduous work in the fields while also performing a wide 
variety of tasks in the domestic household, would be very 
useful on the American plantation. While only a few African 
women were aboard the first ships bringing slaves to the new 
world, as the slave trade gathered momentum, females made 
up one-third of the human eargo aboard most ships. Because 

they could not effectively resist capture at the hands of 
thieves and kidnappers, African women became frequent 
targets for white male slavers. Slavers also used the capture of 
women important to the tribe, like the daughter of a king, as a 
means of luring African men into situations where they could 
be easily captured. Other African women were sold into 
slavery as punishment for breaking tribal laws. A woman 
found guilty of committing an act of adultery might be sold 
into bondage. 

White male slavers did not regard the African female as a 
threat, so often aboard slave ships black women were stored 
without being shackled while black men were chained to one 
another. The slavers believed their own safety to be 
threatened by enslaved African men, but they had no such 
fear of the African female. The placing of African men in 
chains was to prevent possible uprisings. As white slavers 
feared resistance and retaliation at the hands of African men, 
they placed as much distance between themselves and black 
male slaves as was possible on board. It was only in 
relationship to the black 

female slave that the white slaver could exercise freely 
absolute power, for he could brutalize and exploit her without 
fear of harmful retaliation. Black female slaves moving freely 
about the decks were a ready target for any white male who 
might choose to physically abuse and torment them. Initially 
every slave on board the ship was branded with a hot iron. A 
cat- 0 ’-nine-tails was used by the slavers to lash those 
Africans that cried out in pain or resisted the torture. Women 
were lashed severely for crying. They were stripped of their 
clothing and beaten on all parts of their body. Ruth and Jacob 
Weldon, an African couple who experienced the horrors of 
the slave passage, saw “mothers with babes at their breasts 

basely branded and scarred, till it would seem as if the very 
heavens might smite the infernal tormentors with the doom 
they so richly merited.” After the branding all slaves were 
stripped of any clothing. The nakedness of the African female 
served as a constant reminder of her sexual vulnerability. 
Rape was a common method of torture slavers used to subdue 
recalcitrant black women. The threat of rape or other physical 
brutalization inspired terror in the psyches of displaced 
African females. Robert Shufeldt, an observer of the slave 
trade, documented the prevalence of rape on slave ships. He 
asserts, “In those days many a negress was landed upon our 
shored already impregnated by someone of the demonic crew 
that brought her over.” 

Many African women were pregnant prior to their capture or 
purchase. They were forced to endure pregnancy without any 
care given to their diet, without any exercise, and without any 
assistance during the labor. In their own communities African 
women had been accustomed to much pampering and care 
during pregnancy, so the barbaric nature of childbearing on 
the slave ship was both physically harmful and 
psychologically demoralizing. Annals of history record that 
the American slave ship Pongas carried 250 women, many of 
them pregnant, who were squeezed into a compartment of 16 
by 18 feet. The women who survived the initial stages of 
pregnancy gave birth aboard ship with their bodies exposed to 
either the scorching sun or the freezing cold. The numbers of 
black women who died during childbirth or the number of 
stillborn children will never 

be known. Black women with children on board the slave 
ships were ridiculed, mocked, and treated contemptuously by 
the slaver crew. Often the slavers brutalized children to watch 
the anguish of their mothers. In their personal account of life 

aboard a slave ship, the Weldons reeounted an ineident in 
which a child of nine months was flogged continuously for 
refusing to eat. When beating failed to force the child to eat, 
the captain ordered that the child be placed feet first into a pot 
of boiling water. After trying other torturous methods with no 
success, the captain dropped the child and caused its death. 
Not deriving enough satisfaction from this sadistic act, he 
then commanded the mother to throw the body of the child 
overboard. The mother refused but was beaten until she 
submitted. 

The traumatic experiences of African women and men aboard 
slave ships were only the initial stages of an indoctrination 
process that would transform the African free human being 
into a slave. An important part of the slaver’s job was to 
effectively transform the African personality aboard the ships 
so that it would be marketable as a “docile” slave in the 
American colonies. The prideful, arrogant, and independent 
spirit of the African people had to be broken so that they 
would conform to the white colonizer’s notion of proper slave 
demeanor. Crucial in the preparation of African people for the 
slave market was the destruction of human dignity, the 
removal of names and status, the dispersement of groups so 
that there would exist no common language, and the removal 
of any overt sign of an African heritage. The methods the 
slaver used to de-humanize African women and men were 
various tortures and punishments. A slave might be severely 
beaten for singing a sad song. When he deemed it necessary, 
the slaver would slaughter a slave so as to inspire terror in the 
enslaved onlookers. These methods of terrorization succeeded 
in forcing African people to repress their awareness of 
themselves as free people and to adopt the slave identity 
imposed upon them. Slavers recorded in their log-books that 

they were sadistically cruel to Africans aboard the slave ships 
as a way of “breaking them in” or “taming” them. African 
females received the brunt of this mass brutalization and 
terrorization not only because they could be victimized via 
their sexuality but also because they 

were more likely to work intimately with the white family 
than the black male. Since the slaver regarded the black 
woman as a marketable cook, wet nurse, housekeeper, it was 
crucial that she be so thoroughly terrorized that she would 
submit passively to the will of white master, mistress, and 
their children. In order to make his product saleable, the 
slaver had to ensure that no recalcitrant black female servant 
would poison a family, kill children, set fire to the house, or 
resist in any way. The only insurance he could provide was 
based on his ability to tame the slave. Undoubtedly, the slave 
ship experience had a tremendous psychological impact on 
the psyches of black women and men. So horrific was the 
passage from Africa to America that only those women and 
men who could maintain a will to live despite their oppressive 
conditions survived. White people who observed the African 
slaves as they departed from the ships on American shores 
noted that they seemed to be happy and joyful. They thought 
that the happiness of the African slaves was due to their 
pleasure at having arrived in a Christian land. But the slaves 
were only expressing relief They believed no fate that 
awaited them in the American colonies could be as horrific as 
the slave ship experience. 

Traditionally, scholars have emphasized the impact of slavery 
on the black male consciousness, arguing that black men, 
more so than black women, were the “real” victims of 
slavery. Sexist historians and sociologists have provided the 
American public with a perspective on slavery in which the 


most cruel and de-humanizing impact of slavery on the lives 
of blaek people was that black men were stripped of their 
maseulinity, whieh they then argue resulted in the dissolution 
and overall disruption of any black familial structure. 
Seholars have argued further that by not allowing black men 
to assume their traditional patriarchal status, white men 
effectively emaseulated them, reducing them to an effeminate 
state. Implicit in this assertion is the assumption that the worst 
that can happen to a man is that he be made to assume the 
soeial status of woman. To suggest that blaek men were 
de-humanized solely as a result of not being able to be 
patriarchs implies that the subjugation of black women was 
essential to the black male’s 

development of a positive self-eoncept, an idea that only 
served to support a sexist social order. Enslaved black men 
were stripped of the patriarchal status that had characterized 
their social situation in Africa but they were not stripped of 
their masculinity. Despite all popular arguments that claim 
black men were figuratively castrated, throughout the history 
of slavery in America black men were allowed to maintain 
some semblanee of their soeietally defined masculine role. In 
colonial times as in eontemporary times, masculinity denoted 
possessing the attributes of strength, virility, vigor, and 
physical prowess. It was precisely the “maseulinity” of the 
Afriean male that the white slaver sought to exploit. Young, 
strong, healthy African males were his prime target. For it 
was by the sale of virile African men “would-be workers” that 
the white slave trader expected to reeeive maximum profit 
return on his investment. That white people recognized the 
“maseulinity” of the blaek male is evident by the tasks 
assigned the majority of black male slaves. No annals of 
history reeord that masses of black slave men were foreed to 
execute roles traditionally performed exclusively by women. 

Evidence to the contrary exists, documenting the fact that 
there were many tasks enslaved African men would not 
perform because they regarded them as “female” work. If 
white women and men had really been obsessed by the idea 
of destroying black masculinity, they could have physically 
castrated all black men aboard slave ships or they could easily 
have forced black men to assume “feminine” attire or perform 
so-called “feminine” tasks. White slave-holders were 
ambivalent in regards to their treatment of the black male, for 
while they exploited his masculinity, they institutionalized 
measures to keep that masculinity in check. Individual black 
men were castrated by their owners or by mobs but the 
purpose of such acts was usually to set an example for other 
male slaves so that they would not resist white authority. 
Even if enslaved black men had been able to maintain 
completely their patriarchal status in relationship to enslaved 
black women, it would not have made the reality of slave life 
any less tolerable, any less brutal, or any less de-humanizing. 

Oppression of black men during slavery has been described as 
a de-masculinization for the same reason that virtually 
no scholarly attention has been given to the oppression of 
black women during slavery. Underlying both tendencies is 
the sexist assumption that the experiences of men are more 
important than those of women and that what matters most 
among the experiences of men is their ability to assert 
themselves patriarchally. Scholars have been reluctant to 
discuss the oppression of black women during slavery 
because of an unwillingness to seriously examine the impact 
of sexist and racist oppression on their social status. 
Unfortunately this lack of interest and concern leads them to 
deliberately minimize the black female slave experience. 
Although it in no way diminishes the suffering and 
oppressions of enslaved blaek men, it is obvious that the two 
forees, sexism and raeism, intensified and magnified the 
sufferings and oppressions of blaek women. The area that 
most elearly reveals the differentiation between the status of 
male slaves and female slaves is the work area. The blaek 
male slave was primarily exploited as a laborer in the fields; 
the blaek female was exploited as a laborer in the fields, a 
worker in the domestie household, a breeder, and as an objeet 
of white male sexual assault. 

While blaek men were not foreed to assume a role eolonial 
Ameriean soeiety regarded as “feminine,” blaek women were 
foreed to assume a “maseuline” role. Blaek women labored in 
the fields alongside blaek men, but few if any blaek men 
labored as domesties alongside blaek women in the white 
household (with the possible exeeption of butlers, whose 
status was still higher than that of a maid). Thus, it would be 
mueh more aceurate for seholars to examine the dynamies of 
sexist and raeist oppression during slavery in light of the 
maseulinization of the blaek female and not the 
de-maseulinization of the blaek male. In eolonial Ameriean 
soeiety, privileged white women rarely worked in the fields. 
Oeeasionally, white female indentured servants were foreed 
to work in the fields as punishment for misdeeds, but this was 
not a eommon praetiee. In the eyes of eolonial white 
Amerieans, only debased and degraded members of the 
female sex labored in the fields. And any white woman foreed 
by eireumstanees to work in the fields was regarded as 
unworthy of the title “woman.” Although 
enslaved Afriean women had labored in the fields in Afriean 
eommunities, there these tasks were seen as an extension of a 
woman’s feminine role. Transplanted Afriean women soon 
realized that they were seen as “surrogate” men by white male 
slavers. 

On any plantation with a substantial number of female slaves, 
black women performed the same tasks as black men; they 
plowed, planted, and harvested crops. On some plantations 
black women worked longer hours in the fields than black 
men. Even though it was a widespread belief among white 
plantation owners that black women were often better 
workers than their male counterparts, only a male slave could 
rise to the position of driver or overseer. Given their African 
heritage, it was easy for enslaved black women to adapt to 
farm labor in the colonies. Not only was the displaced African 
man unaccustomed to various types of farm labor, he often 
saw many tasks as “feminine” and resented having to perform 
them. In the states where cotton was the main staple to 
market, harvesting of crops depended heavily on the labor of 
black females. Although both black women and men labored 
to pick the ripe cotton, it was believed that the more delicately 
tapered fingers of the black female made it easier for her to 
gather the cotton from the pod. White overseers expected 
black female workers to work as well if not better than their 
male counterparts. If a black female worker failed to 
accomplish the amount of work expected of her, she was 
punished. White men may have discriminated against black 
women slaves in choosing to allow only males to be drivers 
or overseers, but they did not discriminate in the area of 
punishment. Female slaves were beaten as harshly as male 
slaves. Observers of the slave experience claim that it was 
common on a plantation to see a black female stripped naked, 
tied to a stake, and whipped with a hard saw or club. 


On large plantations not all black women labored in the 
fields. They worked as nurses, cooks, seamstresses, 
washer-women, and as maids. The popular notion that black 
slaves working in the white household were automatically the 
recipients of preferential treatment is not always substantiated 
by the personal accounts of slaves. House slaves were less 
subjected to 

the physical hardships that beset field workers, but they were 
more likely to suffer endless cruelty and torture because they 
were constantly in the presence of demanding mistresses and 
masters. Black females working in close contact with white 
mistresses were frequently abused for petty offenses. Mungo 
White, an ex-slave from Alabama, recalled the conditions 
under which his mother worked; 

Her task was too hard for any one person. She had to serve as 
maid to Mr. White’s daughter, cook for all de hands, spin and 
card four cuts of thread a day, and den wash. Dere was one 
hundred and forty-four threads to de cut. If she didn’t get all 
dis done she got fifty lashes dat night. 

House slaves complained repeatedly about the stress and 
strain of being constantly under the surveillance of white 
owners. 

Racist exploitation of black women as workers either in the 
fields or domestic household was not as de-humanizing and 
demoralizing as the sexual exploitation. The sexism of 
colonial white male patriarchs spared black male slaves the 
humiliation of homosexual rape and other forms of sexual 
assault. While institutionalized sexism was a social system 
that protected black male sexuality, it (socially) legitimized 
sexual exploitation of black females. The female slave lived 
in constant awareness of her sexual vulnerability and in 
perpetual fear that any male, white or black, might single her 
out to assault and victimize. Linda Brent in the narrative of 
her slave experience expressed her awareness of the black 
female’s plight: 

Slavery is terrible for men; but it is far more terrible for 
women. Superadded to the burden common to all, they have 
wrongs, and suffering, and mortifieations peeuliarly their 
own. 

Those sufferings peculiar to black women were directly 
related to their sexuality and involved rape and other forms of 
sexual assault. Black female slaves were usually sexually 
assaulted when they were between the ages of thirteen and 
sixteen. One female slave autobiographer deelared: 

The slave girl is reared in an atmosphere of licentiousness and 
fear. The lash and the foul talk of her masters and his sons are 
her teachers. When she is fourteen or fifteen, her 
owner or his sons, or the overseer, or perhaps all of them, 
begin to bribe her with presents. If these failed to accomplish 
their purpose, she is whipped or starved into submission to 
their will. 

Blaek female slave narratives that provide information 
concerning the sexual education of girls suggest that they 
knew little about their bodies, where babies eame from, or 
about sexual intercourse. Few slave parents warned their 
daughters about the possibility of rape or helped them to 
prepare for sueh situations. The slave parents’ unwillingness 
to openly coneern themselves with the reality of sexual 
exploitation reflects the general colonial American attitude 
regarding sexuality. 

Sexual exploitation of young slave girls usually occurred after 
they left the hut or cabin of their parents to work in the white 
domestic household. It was a common practice for a young 
slave girl to be forced to sleep in the same bedroom with a 
master and mistress, a situation which provided a convenient 
setting for sexual assault. Linda Brent recorded in her 
autobiography a detailed account of her white master’s 
obsessive desire to assert his power over her by constantly 
threatening rape. When Linda first entered the service of her 
owner Dr. Flint, she was thirteen years old. He did not rape 
her but began to constantly torment and persecute her by 
verbally announcing his intentions to take her sexually. At the 
onset of their encounter he informed her that if she would not 
willingly submit, he would use force. Describing herself at 
fifteen, Linda wrote: 

I was compelled to live under the same roof with him— 
where I saw a man forty years my senior daily violating the 
most sacred commandment of nature. He told me I was his 
property; that I must be subjected to his will in all things... 

White male slaveowners usually tried to bribe black women 
as preparation for sexual overtures so as to place them in the 
role of prostitute. As long as the white slaveowner “paid” for 
the sexual services of his black female slave, he felt absolved 
of responsibility for such acts. Given the harsh conditions of 
slave life, any suggestion that enslaved black women had a 
choice as to their sexual partner is ludicrous. Since the white 
male could rape the black female who did not willingly 
respond to his demands, passive submission on the part of the enslaved 
black women cannot be seen as complicity. Those women 
who did not willingly respond to the sexual overture of 
masters and overseers were brutalized and punished. Any 
show of resistance on the part of enslaved females increased 
the determination of white owners eager to demonstrate their 
power. In an account of her slave experience, Ann, a young 
mulatto woman, documents the struggle for power enacted by 
white masters, overseers, whippers, and the female slave. In 
her case it was the paid whipper who planned to rape her. He 
demanded that she remove all her clothing prior to the 
whipping. When Ann realized that he intended to rape her, 
she struggled. Her resistence angered him and he responded, 
“Girl, you’ve got to yield to me. I’ll have you now; if it’s only 
to show you that I can...You’ve got to be mine. I’ll give you 
a fine calico dress and a pretty pair of ear-bobs!” Ann tells 
readers: 

This was too much for further endurance. What! Must I give 
up the angel sealed honor of my life in traffic for trinkets. 
Where is the woman that would not have hotly resented such 
an insult. I turned upon him like a hungry lioness, and just as 
his wanton hand was about to be laid upon me, I dexterously 
aimed, and hurled the bottle against his left temple. With a 
low cry of pain he fell to the floor, and the blood oozed freely 
from the wound. 

The paid whipper did not die from Ann’s attack, so she was 
only punished by a prison sentence and daily floggings. Had 
he died she would have been tried for murder and sentenced 
to death. 


Nineteenth eentury white female humanist Lydia Marie Child 
accurately summed up the social status of black women 
during slavery with the statement: 

The negro woman is unprotected either by law or public 
opinion. She is the property of her master, and her daughters 
are his property. They are allowed to have no conscientious 
scruples, no sense of shame, no regard for the feelings of 
husband, or parent: they must be entirely subservient to the 
will of their owner on pain of being whipped as near unto 
death as will comport with his interest or quite to death if it 
suits his pleasure. 

White male slaveowners wanted enslaved black women to 
passively accept sexual exploitation as the right and privilege 
of those in power. The black female slave who willingly 
submitted to a master’s sexual advance and who received 
presents of payments was rewarded for her acceptance of the 
existing social order. Those black women who resisted sexual 
exploitation directly challenged the system; their refusal to 
submit passively to rape was a denouncement of the 
slaveowner’s right to their persons. They were brutally 
punished. The political aim of this categorical rape of black 
women by white males was to obtain absolute allegiance and 
obedience to the white imperialistic order. Black activist 
Angela Davis has convincingly argued that the rape of black 
female slaves was not, as other scholars have suggested, a 
case of white men satisfying their sexual lust, but was in fact 
an institutionalized method of terrorism which had as its goal 
the demoralization and dehumanization of black women. 
Davis contends: 




In confronting the black woman as adversary in a sexual 
contest, the master would be subjecting her to the most 
elemental form of terrorism distinctly suited for the female; 
rape. Given the already terroristic texture of plantation life, it 
would be as potential vietim of rape that the slave woman 
would be most unguarded. Further, she might be most 
conveniently manipulated if the master contrived a random 
system of sorts, forcing her to pay with her body for foods, 
diminished severity of treatment, the safety of her children, 
etc. 

In 1839, the book A merican Slavery: As It Is was published 
anonymously by white abolitionists who believed they could 
destroy the pro-slavery arguments by exposing in print the 
horrors of slave life. They relied on the aecounts of white 
people who had observed slavery firsthand or had gained 
information from slaveholders and their friends. The work 
was compiled and eollated primarily by Angelina and Sarah 
Grimke, two outspoken abolitionists. Beeause their brother 
had fathered children by a black female slave, they were 
particularly concerned about the sexual exploitation of black 
female slaves. For many other white female abolitionists the 
sole motivating force behind their anti-slavery efforts was the 
desire to bring an end 

to sexual contaet between white men and black female slaves. 
They were not eoncemed about the plight of enslaved black 
women, but about saving the souls of white men whom they 
believed had sinned against God by their acts of moral 
depravity. Many pro-slavery white women ultimately 
denounced slavery beeause of their outrage at the sexual 
barbarity of white men. They felt personally shamed and 
humiliated by what they termed white male adultery (whieh 
was in aetuality rape). Commenting on her mistress’ attitude 

toward the sexual exploitation of black women, Linda Brent 
wrote: 

I was soon convinced that her emotions arose from anger and 
wounded pride. She felt that her marriage vows were 
desecrated, her dignity insulted; but she had no compassion 
for the poor victim of her husband’s perfidy. She pitied 
herself as a martyr; but she was incapable of feeling for the 
condition of shame and misery in which her unfortunate, 
helpless slaves were placed. 

The Grimke women sympathized with the plight of black 
females but Victorian social convention governing behavior 
did not allow them to graphically expose many of the cruel 
acts inflicted upon black slave women by white men. Proper 
decorum prevented them from speaking directly and honestly 
about the hidden evils of slavery. Angelina Grimke wrote: 

We forbear to lift the veil of private life any higher. Let these 
few hints suffice to give you some idea of what is daily 
passing behind the curtain which has been so carefully drawn 
before the scenes of domestic life in slave holding America. 

Had Angelina and Sarah Grimke lifted the veil of private life 
any higher they would have exposed not only slaveowners 
siring children by black women, but sadistic misogynist acts 
of cruelty and brutality that went far beyond seduction—to 
rape, to torture, and even to orgiastic murder and necrophilia. 

Modern historians tend to make light of the sexual 
exploitation of black women during slavery. In his Daughters 
of the Promised Land Page Smith writes: 


Most young Southern men doubtless had their initial sexual 
experienee with a eompliant slave girl. It was not 
unnatural that many of them should eontinue to indulge 
themselves after their marriages. In addition there was 
undoubtedly the attraetion of the perverse, of the taboo, the 
assoeiation of darkness with pleasant wiekedness, the absenee 
of any danger to the sexual exploiter however unweleome his 
attentions may have been. Moreover, there was the tradition 
of Negro sensuality whieh may well have worked to make the 
white wife a more restrained sexual partner. Thus when the 
Southern male looked to slave women for his basie sexual 
satisfaetion, he inereasingly found them there. Sinee there 
seems to be in masculine sexuality a measure of 
aggressiveness and even sadism, passivity and 
defenselessness seem often to enhance the desirability of the 
sexual object which was what the Negro woman was for her 
white masters. 

The reader is encouraged by Smith to regard the brutality of 
white men as merely a case of “boys will be boys.” Like 
many other historians, he paints a picture of slavery in which 
white men had “normal” male sexual desires that they 
indulged with submissive slave girls. While he acknowledges 
the sadism that often prompted sexual exploitation of the 
black female slave, he minimizes it by implying that it was an 
extension of “normal” male sexual expression. 

The brutal treatment of enslaved black women by white men 
exposed the depths of male hatred of woman and woman’s 
body. Such treatment was a direct consequence of misogynist 
attitudes toward women that prevailed in colonial American 
society. In fundamentalist Christian teaching woman was 
portrayed as an evil sexual temptress, the bringer of sin into 



the world. Sexual lust originated with her and men were 
merely the vietims of her wanton power. Socialization of 
white men to regard women as their moral downfall led to the 
development of anti-woman sentiment. White male religious 
teachers taught that woman was an inherently sinful creature 
of the flesh whose wickedness could only be purged by the 
intercession of a more powerful being. Appointing themselves 
as the personal agents of God, they became the judges and 
overseers of woman’s virtue. They instigated laws to govern 
the sexual behavior of white women, to ensure that they 
would not be tempted to stray from the straight and narrow 
path. Severe 

punishments were meted out to those women who 
overstepped the boundaries white men defined as woman’s 
place. The Salem Witchcraft trials were an extreme 
expression of patriarchal society’s persecution of women. 
They were a message to all women that unless they remained 
within passive, subordinate roles they would be punished, 
even put to death. 

The numerous laws enacted to govern sexual behavior among 
early American whites have caused some scholars to conclude 
that the movement toward sexual repression in colonial 
society occurred as a reaction against the sexual 
permissiveness of the colonizers. Andrew Sinclair comments: 

The terrible liberty of isolation and the wilderness made some 
of the first settlers discard their European moral restraints. 
Cases of bestiality, according to Cotton Mather, were not 
unknown.... As the first missionaries of the West were told, 
barbarism was the first danger to the pioneers, ‘They will 
think it no degradation to do before the woods and wild 
animals, what, in the presence of a cultivated social state they 


would blush to perpetrate.’ Until a stem publie opinion eould 
govern the ethics of a scattered and immigrant society, small 
governments tried to do what they could to keep up the 
standards of civilization. 

White colonizers sought to suppress sexuality because of their 
deep fear of sexual feelings, their belief that such feelings 
were sinful, and their fear of eternal damnation. Colonial 
white men placed the responsibility for sexual lust onto 
women and consequently regarded them with the same 
suspicion and distmst they associated with sexuality in 
general. Such intense fear and distmst of women bred 
misogynistic feeling. In the Troublesome Helpmate, 
Katherine Rogers offers an explanation for the emergence of 
misogynic feeling; 

Of the cultural causes of misogyny, rejection of or guilt about 
sex is the most obvious. It leads naturally to degradation of 
woman as the sexual object and projection onto her of the lust 
and desire to seduce which a man must repress in himself At 
the same time that he denigrated woman’s sexual function, 
the preoccupation with sex resulting from the attempt to 
repress desire is apt to make him see her exclusively as a 
sexual being, more lustful than man and not spiritual at all.... 

Misogyny can also develop as a result of the idealization with 
which men have glorified women as mistresses, wives, and 
mothers. This has led to a natural reaction, a desire to tear 
down what has been raised unduly high. 

Colonial white men expressed their fear and hatred of 
womanhood by institutionalizing sexist discrimination and 
sexist oppression. 


In the 19th century, the growing economic prosperity of white 
Americans caused them to stray from the stern religious 
teachings that had shaped the life of the first colonizers. With 
the shift away from fundamentalist Christian doctrine came a 
change in male perceptions of women. 19th century white 
women were no longer portrayed as sexual temptresses; they 
were extolled as the “nobler half of humanity” whose duty 
was to elevate men’s sentiments and inspire their higher 
impulses. The new image of white womanhood was 
diametrically opposed to the old image. She was depicted as 
goddess rather than sinner; she was virtuous, pure, innocent, 
not sexual and wordly. By raising the white female to a 
goddess-like status, white men effectively removed the stigma 
Christianity had placed on them. White male idealization of 
white women as innocent and virtuous served as an act of 
exorcism, which had as its purpose transforming her image 
and ridding her of the curse of sexuality. The message of the 
idealization was this: as long as white women possessed 
sexual feeling they would be seen as degraded immoral 
creatures; remove those sexual feelings and they become 
beings worthy of love, consideration, and respect. Once the 
white female was mythologized as pure and virtuous, a 
symbolic Virgin Mary, white men could see her as exempt 
from negative sexist stereotypes of the female. The price she 
had to pay was the suppression of natural sexual impulses. 
Given the strains of endless pregnancies and the hardships of 
childbirth, it is understandable that 19th century white women 
felt no great attachment to their sexuality and gladly accepted 
the new, glorified de-sexualized identity white men imposed 
upon them. Most white women eagerly absorbed sexist 
ideology that claimed virtuous women had no sexual 
impulses. So convinced were they of the necessity to hide 


their sexuality that they were unwilling to undress to expose 
sick 

body parts to male physicians. A French visitor to America 
observed, “American women divide their whole body in two 
parts; from the top to the waist is the stomach; from there to 
the foot is ankles.” On this same subject Page Smith 
comments: 

They were too modest to let a doctor touch their bodies and 
they could not even bring themselves, in some instances, to 
describe an ailment, like one young mother with an ulcerated 
breast who, too prudish to speak frankly to the doctor, 
described her condition as a pain in the stomach. 

Forcing white women to deny their physical beings was as 
much an expression of male hatred of woman as was 
regarding them as sex objects. Idealization of white women 
did not change the basic contempt white men felt towards 
them. Visitors from foreign countries often noticed the veiled 
hostility of white men towards white women. One visitor 
commented: 

American men accorded their women more deference, 
lavished more money on them, regarded them with more 
respect than was accorded the women of any country. But 
they did not particularly like them. They did not enjoy their 
company; they did not find them interesting in themselves. 
They valued them as wives and mothers, they sentimentalized 
over them; they congratulated themselves on their enlightened 
attitude toward them. But they did not (and they do not) 
particularly like them. 

The shift away from the image of white woman as sinful and 
sexual to that of white woman as virtuous lady oeeurred at the 
same time as mass sexual exploitation of enslaved blaek 
women—just as the rigid sexual morality of Vietorian 
England ereated a soeiety in whieh the extolling of woman as 
mother and helpmeet oeeurred at the same time as the 
formation of a mass underworld of prostitution. As Ameriean 
white men idealized white womanhood, they sexually 
assaulted and brutalized blaek women. Raeism was by no 
means the sole eause of many cruel and sadistic acts of 
violence perpetrated by white men against enslaved black 
women. The deep hatred of woman that had been embedded 
in the white colonizer’s psyche by patriarchal ideology and 
anti-woman religious teachings both motivated and 
sanctioned white male brutality against black women. At the 
onset of their arrival in the American colonies, 
black women and men faced a society that was eager to 
impose upon the displaced African the identity of “sexual 
savage.” As white colonizers adopted a self-righteous sexual 
morality for themselves, they even more eagerly labeled black 
people sexual heathens. Since woman was designated as the 
originator of sexual sin, black women were naturally seen as 
the embodiment of female evil and sexual lust. They were 
labeled jezebels and sexual temptresses and accused of 
leading white men away from spiritual purity into sin. One 
white politician urged that blacks be sent back to Africa so 
that white men would not fornicate or commit adultery. His 
words were “remove this temptation from us.” Although 
religious white women, white men, and black men argued that 
white men were morally responsible for sexual assaults on 
black women, they tended to accept the notion that men 
succumb to female sexual temptation. Because sexist 
religious doctrines had taught them that women were the 

seducers of men, they believed black women were not totally 
blameless. Frequently, they used the term “prostitution” to 
refer to the buying and selling of black women for sexually 
exploitative purposes. Since prostitutes are women and men 
who engage in sexual behavior for money or pay of some 
kind, it is a term inaccurately used when applied to enslaved 
black women who rarely received compensation for the use of 
their bodies as sexual latrines. Abolitionist women and men 
labeled black women “prostitutes” because they were trapped 
by the language of the Victorian ethos. In speaking of the 
mass sexual abuse of black women, noted black orator 
Frederick Douglass told an abolitionist audience in Rochester, 
New York in 1850 that “every slaveholder is the legalized 
keeper of a house of ill-fame.” Yet his words did not begin to 
accurately describe the sexual exploitation of black women. 
Douglass informed his audience; 

I hold myself ready to prove that more than a million of 
women, in the Southern States of this Union, are, by laws of 
the land, and through no fault of their own, consigned to a life 
of revolting prostitution; that by those laws, in many of the 
States, if a woman, in defense of her own innocence, shall lift 
her hand against the brutal aggressor, she may be lawfully put 
to death... It is also known that slave women, 
who are nearly white, are sold in those markets, at prices 
which proclaim, trumpet-tongued, the accursed purposes by 
which they are to be devoted. Youth and elegance, beauty and 
innocence, are exposed for sale upon the auction block; while 
villainous monsters stand around, with pockets lined with 
gold, gazing with lustful eyes upon their prospective victims. 

It was difficult for abolitionists to discuss the rape of black 
women for fear of offending audiences, so they concentrated 


on the theme of prostitution. But the use of the word 
prostitution to describe mass sexual exploitation of enslaved 
black women by white men not only deflected attention away 
from the prevalence of forced sexual assault, it lent further 
credibility to the myth that black females were inherently 
wanton and therefore responsible for rape. 

Contemporary sexist scholars minimize the impact of sexual 
exploitation of black women on the black female psyche and 
argue that white men used the rape of black women to further 
emasculate black men. Black sociologist Robert Staples 
asserts: 

The rape of the slave woman brought home to the slave man 
his inability to protect his woman. Once his masculinization 
was undermined in this respect, he would begin to experience 
profound doubts about his power even to break the chains of 
bondge. 

Staples’ argument is based on the assumption that enslaved 
black men felt responsible for all black women and were 
demoralized because of their inability to act as protectors—an 
assumption that has not been substantiated by historical 
evidence. An examination of many traditional African 
societies’ attitudes toward women reveals that African men 
were not taught to see themselves as the protectors of all 
women. They were taught to assume responsibility for the 
particular women of their tribe or community. The 
socialization of African men to see themselves as the 
“owners” of all black women and to regard them as property 
they should protect occurred after the long years of slavery 
and as the result of bonding on the basis of color rather than 


shared tribal connection or language. Prior to their adoption 
of white American sexist attitudes toward 
women, there was no reason for enslaved African men to feel 
responsible for all enslaved African women. Assuredly, the 
sexual assault of black women had an impact on the psyches 
of black male slaves. It is likely that the black male slave did 
not feel demoralized or de-humanized because “his” women 
were being raped, but that he did feel terrorized by the 
knowledge that white men who were willing to brutalize and 
victimize black women and girls (who represented no great 
threat to their authority), might easily have no qualms about 
totally annihilating black men. Most black male slaves stood 
quietly by as white masters sexually assaulted and brutalized 
black women and were not compelled to act as protectors. 
Their first instincts were toward self-preservation. In her 
slave narrative, Linda Brent tells readers that black male 
slaves as a group did not see themselves as the protectors of 
black slave women. She comments: 

There are some who strive to protect wives and daughters 
from the insults of their master; but those who have such 
sentiments have advantages above the general mass of 
slaves... Some poor creatures have been so brutalized by the 
lash that they will sneak out of the house to give their masters 
free access to their wives and daughters. 

Throughout the years of slavery, individual black men rallied 
to the defense of black women who were important to them. 
Their defense of these women was not motivated by a sense 
of themselves as the natural protectors of all black women. 

Historian Eugene Genovese discusses the sexual exploitation 
of enslaved black females in Roll, Jordan, Roll, and contends: 


Rape meant, by definition, rape of white women, for no sueh 
crime as rape of a black woman existed at law. Even when a 
black man sexually attacked a black woman, he could only be 
punished by his master; no way existed to bring him to trial or 
to convict him if so brought. 

The rape of black women by black male slaves is further 
indication that, rather than assuming the role of protector, 
black men imitated the white male’s behavior. Genovese 
concludes: 

Some drivers forced the slave woman in much the same way 
as did some masters and overseers. It remains an open 
question which of those powerful white and black males 
forced the female slaves more often. Under the task system 
the driver set the day’s work for each slave and had no trouble 
making a woman’s lot miserable if she refused him. Under 
the more prevalent gang system, drivers could lay the whip on 
with impunity—if they had the power to whip at all—as many 
did—or they could find any number of other ways to reward 
and punish. 

Given the barbaric nature of slave life, it is likely that black 
slave women allied with powerful black men who could 
protect them from the unwanted sexual advances of other 
slaves. Sexual jealousies and rivalries were a primary cause of 
most quarrels between black slave men. 

The enslaved black woman could not look to any group of 
men, white or black, to protect her against sexual exploitation. 
Often in desperation, slave women attempted to enlist the aid 
of white mistresses, but these attempts usually failed. Some 
mistresses responded to the distress of female slaves by 

persecuting and tormenting them. Others encouraged the use 
of black women as sex objects because it allowed them 
respite from unwanted sexual advances. In rare cases, white 
mistresses who were reluctant to see sons marry and leave 
home purchased black maids to be sexual playmates for them. 
Those white women who deplored the sexual exploitation of 
slave women were usually reluctant to involve themselves 
with a slave’s plight for fear of jeopardizing their own 
position in the domestic household. Most white women 
regarded black women who were the objects of their 
husbands’ sexual assaults with hostility and rage. Having 
been taught by religious teachings that women were 
inherently sexual temptresses, mistresses often believed that 
the enslaved black woman was the culprit and their husbands 
the innocent victims. In Once A Slave, a book which contains 
a condensed body of information gleaned from slave 
narratives, the author Stanley Feldstein recounts an incident 
in which a white mistress returned home unexpectedly from 
an outing, opened the doors of her dressing room, and 
discovered her husband raping a thirteen year old slave girl. 
She 

responded by beating the girl and locking her in a 
smokehouse. The girl was whipped daily for several weeks. 
When older slaves pleaded on the child’s behalf and dared to 
suggest that the white master was to blame, the mistress 
simply replied, “She’ll know better in future. After I’ve done 
with her, she’ll never do the like again through ignorance.” 
White women held black slave women responsible for rape 
because they had been socialized by 19th century sexual 
morality to regard woman as sexual temptress. This same 
sexual morality was adopted by slaves. Fellow slaves often 
pitied the lot of sexually exploited females but did not see 
them as blameless victims. One female abolitionist states: 


Of all who drooped and withered under the inflietions of this 
horrible system, the greatest sufferer was defenseless women. 
For the male slave, however brutally treated, there was some 
recourse; but for the woman slave there was neither 
protection nor pity. 

Rape was not the only method used to terrorize and 
de-humanize black women. Sadistic floggings of naked black 
women were another method employed to strip the female 
slave of dignity. In the Victorian world, where white women 
were religiously covering every body part, black women were 
daily stripped of their clothing and publicly whipped. 
Slave-owners were well aware that it added to the degradation 
and humiliation of female slaves for them to be forced to 
appear naked before male whippers and onlookers. A 
Kentucky slave recalled; 

The women are subjected to these punishments as rigorously 
as the men—not even pregnancy exempts them; in that case 
before binding them to the stake, a hole is made in the ground 
to accommodate the enlarged form of the victim. 

Susan Boggs recalled: 

They would have a woman stripped and cobbed if she did 
anything they didn’t like. Perhaps if the bread did not rise 
well, the mistress would tell the master when he came home; 
and she would be sent to the trader’s jail to be cobbed. It is 
awful to think of women, of human beings, being exposed in 
this way. 

Sadistic floggings of nude black women were socially 
sanctioned because they were seen as racial abuse, a master 

punishing a recalcitrant slave, but they were also expressions 
of male contempt and hatred for the female. Solomon 
Bradley, an ex-slave, told a journalist who interviewed him: 

Yes, sir; the most shocking thing that I have seen was on the 
plantation of Mr. Farrarby, on the line of the railroad. I went 
up to his house one morning from my work for drinking 
water, and heard a woman screaming awfully. On going up to 
the fence and looking over I saw a woman stretched out, face 
downwards, on the ground her hands and feet being fastened 
to stakes. Mr. Farrarby was standing over her and striking her 
with a leather trace belonging to his carriage harness. As he 
struck her the flesh of her back and legs were raised in welts 
and ridges by the force of blows. Sometimes when the poor 
thing cried too loud from the pain Farrarby would kick her in 
the mouth. After he exhausted himself whipping her he sent 
to his house for sealing wax and a lighted candle and, melting 
the wax, dropped it upon the woman’s lacerated back. He 
then got a riding whip and, standing over the woman, picked 
off the hardened wax by switching at it. Mr. Farrarby’s grown 
daughters were looking at this from a window of the house 
through the blinds. This punishment was so terrible that I was 
induced to ask what offence the woman had committed and 
was told by her fellow servants that her only crime was in 
burning the edges of the waffles that she had cooked for 
breakfast 

It takes little imagination to comprehend the significance of 
one oppressed black woman being brutally tortured while the 
more privileged white women look passively at her plight. 
Incidents of this nature exposed to white women the cruelty 
of their husbands, fathers, and brothers and served as a 
warning of what might be their fate should they not maintain 


a passive stance. Surely, it must have occurred to white 
women that were enslaved black women not available to bear 
the brunt of such intense anti-women male aggression, they 
themselves might have been the victims. In most slaveholding 
homes, white women played as active a role in physical 
assaults of black women as did white men. While white 
women rarely physically assaulted black male slaves, they 
tortured and persecuted black 

females. Their alliance with white men on the common 
ground of racism enabled them to ignore the anti-woman 
impulse that also motivated attacks on black women. 

Breeding was another socially legitimized method of sexually 
exploiting black women. I mentioned earlier that white men 
in colonial America defined the primary function of all 
women to be that of breeding workers. Contemporary 
scholars often dismiss the breeding of slave women on the 
basis that it occurred on such a small scale as to not merit 
attention. Yet a rather convincing body of evidence exists 
substantiating not only the existence of slave breeding but the 
fact that it was a widespread and common practice. Reporting 
on the slave trade in the state of Virginia in 1819 Frances 
Corbin wrote, “Our principal profit depends on the increase of 
our slaves.” During the early years of slavery, breeding of 
African women was a difficult process. In traditional African 
communities black women suckled their children at their 
breasts and weaned them at the late age of two years old. For 
this time period, the African woman did not engage in sexual 
intercourse and consequently spaced her pregnancies. This 
practice allowed women time to recuperate physically before 
starting a new pregnancy. White slaveowners could not 
understand the reasons slave women did not bear many 
children consecutively. Their response to this situation was to 

use threats of violence as a means of coercing slave women to 
reproduce. Frederick Olmstead, a southern white observer of 
the practice of slave breeding, made this comment: 

In the states of Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, 
Kentucky, Tennessee, as much attention is paid to the 
breeding and growth of negroes as to that of horses and 
mules. Further south, we raise them both for use and for 
market. Planters command their girls and women (married or 
unmarried) to have children; and I have known a great many 
girls to be sold off because they did not have children. A 
breeding woman is worth from one-sixth to one-fourth more 
than one that does not breed. 

Advertisements announcing the sale of black female slaves 
used the terms “breeding slaves,” “child-bearing woman,” 
“breeding period,” “too old to breed,” to describe individual 
women. Moncure Conway, the son of a Virginia slaveholder, 
recalled: 

As a general thing, the chief pecuniary resource in the border 
states is the breeding of slaves; and I grieve to say that there 
is too much ground for the charges that general licentiousness 
among the slaves for the purpose of a large increase is 
compelled by some masters and encouraged by many. The 
period of maternity is hastened, the average youth of negro 
mothers being nearly three years earlier than that of any free 
race, and an old maid is utterly known among the women. 

Slave women who refused to choose a man and mate with 
him had men forced upon them by their overseer or master. 
Some slaveholders preferred to breed black women with 
white men, as mulattoes frequently brought a higher price on 


the market or were easier to sell. In a letter dated Mareh 
13,1835 a Methodist minister residing in Virginia observed; 

Mulattoes are surer than pure negroes. Hence planters have no 
objection to any white man or boy having free intercourse 
with all the females; and it has been the case that an overseer 
has been encouraged to make the whole posse his harem and 
has been paid for the issue. 

Barren black women suffered most under the breeding 
system. In a report presented to the General Anti-Slavery 
Convention held in London June 1840, witnesses testified that 
barren black females were the victims of great physical and 
psychological abuse. The report stated; 

Where fruitfulness is the greatest of virtues, barrenness will 
be regarded as worse than a misfortune, as a crime and the 
subjects of it will be exposed to every form of privation and 
affliction. Thus a deficiency, wholly beyond the slave’s 
power becomes the occasion of inconceivable suffering. 

In this same report, a North Carolina citizen repeated a story 
told to him by a friend about slave breeding on Carolina 
plantations. 

One day the owner ordered the women into the bam; he then 
went in among them, whip in hand, and told them he meant to 
flog them all to death. They began immediately to cry out, 
‘What have I done massa? What have I done?’ He 
replied, ‘Damn you, I will let you know what you have done; 
you don’t breed, I have not had a young one from one of you 
for several months.’” 


Some slave owners devised a system of rewards to induee 
women to breed. But sueh rewards were rarely eommensurate 
with serviees rendered. On some plantations a woman might 
be given a small pig eaeh time a ehild was born to her. 
Women were promised a new dress or a new pair of shoes at 
the birth of a ehild. A small monetary sum, from one to five 
dollars, might be given a slave woman at the birth of her 
fourth or fifth ehild. A few slaveowners promised freedom to 
blaek women who bore large families. A ease appeared before 
the Virginia eourts in 1761 in a dispute over a will that 
ineluded a provision to free a female slave Jenny if she bore 
ten live ehildren. Some enslaved women desired pregnaney, 
for they saw it as a means of obtaining eertain advantages, the 
primary one being a lightening of the work load. Franees 
Kemble in her Journal of a Residenee on a Georgian 
Plantation in 1838-1839 surmised: 

On the birth of a child certain additions of clothing and an 
additional weekly ration are bestowed on the family; and 
these matters small as they may seem, acted as powerful 
inducements to creatures who have not of the restraining 
influence activating them which belongs to the parental 
relation among all other people, whether civilized or savage. 
Moreover, they have all of them a most distinct and perfect 
knowledge of their value to their owner as property; and a 
woman thinks, and not so much amiss that the more 
frequently she adds to the number of her master’s livestock by 
bringing new slaves into the world, the more claims she will 
have upon his consideration and good will. 

Breeding was oppressive to all fertile black slave women. 
Undernourished, overworked women were rarely in a 
physical condition that would allow for safe easy childbirth. 



Repeated pregnancies without proper care resulted in 
numerous miscarriages and death. Frances Kemble gave the 
following account of the condition of black women on her 
husband’s plantation, women who considered themselves 
well off compared to slaves on neighboring plantations: 

Fanny has had six children; all dead but one, she came to 
beg to have her work in the field lightened. 

Nanny has had three children; two of them are dead. She 
came to implore that the rule of sending them into the field 
three weeks after their confinement might be altered. 

Leah, Caesar’s wife, has had six children; three are dead. 

Sophy, Lewis’s wife, came to beg for some old line. She is 
suffering fearfully; has had ten children; five of them all dead. 
The principal favor she asked was a piece of meat, which I 
gave her. 

Sally, Scipio’s wife, has had two miscarriages and three 
children born, one of whom is dead. She came complaining of 
incessant pain and weakness in her back. This woman was a 
mullatto daughter of a slave called Sophy, by a white man of 
the name of Walker who visited the plantation. 

Charlotte, Renty’s wife, has had two miscarriages, and was 
with child again. She was almost crippled with rheumatism, 
and showed me a pair of poor swollen knees that made my 
heart ache. I have promised her a pair of flannel trousers, 
which I must forthwith set about making. 


Sarah, Stephen’s wife; this woman’s ease and history alike 
are deplorable. She has had four misearriages, had brought 
seven ehildren into the world, five of whom were dead, and 
was again with ehild. She eomplained of dreadful pains in the 
baek, and an internal tumor whieh swells with the exertion of 
working in the fields; probably I think, it is ruptured.... I 
suppose her eonstant ehildbearing and hard labor in the fields 
at the same time may have produeed... temporary insanity... 

I ask these questions about their ehildren beeause I think the 
number they bear as eompared with the number they rear a 
fair gauge of the effeet of the system on their own health and 
that of their offspring. There was hardly one of these, as you 
will see by the details I have noted of their ailments, who 
might not have been a eandidate for a bed in a hospital, and 
they had eome to me after working all day in the fields. 

Kemble admired the patienee with whieh suffering enslaved 
blaek women endured their harsh lot, but she was not 
unaware of the “utter despair” that was often masked by their 
quiet aeeeptanee. 

Mass sexual exploitation of enslaved blaek women was a 
direet eonsequenee of the anti-woman sexual politics of 
colonial 

patriarchal America. Since the black woman was not 
protected either by law or public opinion, she was an easy 
target. While racism was clearly the evil that had decreed 
black people would be enslaved, it was sexism that 
determined that the lot of the black female would be harsher, 
more brutal than that of the black male slave. That sexism 
was not limited solely to white men. The slaveowner’s 
encouragement of mating between black women and men led 


to the establishment of a blaek slave sub-culture. Within the 
black slave sub-culture a similar sexual politics emerged. 
Initially, slave women were compelled by their masters to 
mate indiscriminately. It was not uncommon for a master to 
grant a favored black male slave the privilege of marrying a 
slave girl or woman of his choice, even if she was a reluctant 
partner. This practice was not successful. Resistance to forced 
mating often led to such social upheavals that most masters 
deemed it wiser to allow black slave women and men to 
choose their own partners. The couple would make others 
aware of their commitment by setting up a nuclear household 
in a vacant hut or cabin. As the displaced Africans assimilated 
American values, they wanted to have the ecclesiastical and 
civil ceremonies their masters and mistresses had; they 
desired public acknowledgement of their union. Although 
there were never any legally acknowledged marriages 
between slaves, they wanted the same marriage rituals their 
white owners enacted. On some plantations slaves carried out 
traditional African marriage rites—the asking of relatives for 
a woman’s hand and the offering of a small dowry. Many 
white plantation owners incorporated the practice of engaged 
couples holding hands and jumping over a broom as a 
marriage ritual for slaves as it had once been a popular ritual 
among early American white colonizers. On a few 
plantations, masters allowed marriage ceremonies to be 
performed by an ordained minister despite the fact that the 
service had no legal significance. Most slaves desired a 
minister to perform the marriage ceremony because they 
observed that this was a norm of the dominant culture. 
Undoubtedly courtships and marriages between slaves were 
important because the happiness of such occasions augmented 
the harsh reality of slave life. In his slave narrative, Thomas 
Jones declared that the slave who was: 


despised and trampled upon by a cruel race of unfeeling men 
would die in the prime of his wretched life, if he found no 
refuge in a dear home, where love and sympathy shall meet 
him from hearts made sacred to him by his own irrepressible 
affections and tendernesses for them. 

Sex roles in the black slave sub-culture mirrored those of 
patriarchal white America. Within the black slave sub-culture, 
it was the black female who cooked for the family, cleaned 
the hut or cabin, nursed the sick, washed and mended the 
clothes, and cared for the needs of children. Black slave men 
regarded tasks like cooking, sewing, nursing, and even minor 
farm labor as woman’s work. In her study of white women in 
the south. The Southern Lady, Anne Scott describes an 
incident in which a black slave man refused to perform a task 
he considered beneath his male dignity: 

On a farm in a moment of crisis when the mother and all the 
children were ill, a Negro slave rejected in bewilderment the 
suggestion, that he milk the cow, on the grounds that 
everybody knew that to be woman’s work and therefore 
impossible for him to undertake. 

While enslaved black men were in no position to be 
completely accepted as patriarchal authority figures with the 
right to rule over women, enslaved black females did conform 
to existing sex-role patterns that granted men higher status 
than women. Frances Butler Leigh (the daughter of Fanny 
Kemble) noted that among slaves in the Georgia Sea Islands 
“the good old law of female submission to the husband’s will 
on all points held good.” Acceptance of male superiority was 
particularly emphasized in the religious teachings preached to 
slaves. Christian slave women resolutely believed that it was 


natural that they be subservient to men. A plantation owner 
from bounders Count, Mississippi, Mr. William Ervin, set up 
rules to govern his slaves whieh were based on the sex role 
patterns established by patriarehy. One rule read: 

Eaeh family to live in their own house. The husbands to 
provide fire wood and see that they are all provided for and 
wait on his wife. The wife to eook and wash for the husband 
and her children and attend to the mending of clothes. Eailure 
on either part when proven shall and must be 
corrected by words first but if not reformed to be corrected by 
the whip. 

The practice of masters and mistresses identifying a slave 
woman by her husband’s name (Scipio’s Jane or John’s Sue), 
indicates that whites accorded the black male slave a higher 
status than that of the female slave. Historian Eugene 
Genovese contends: 

Sensible masters actually encouraged a limited sexual 
division of labor among their slaves and saw some advantages 
in strengthening the power of the male in the household. 

As regards hierarchies based solely on race, the social status 
of black women and men was the same, but sexist 
differentiation caused the lot of the male to be distinguished 
from that of the female. A measure of social equality existed 
between the sexes in the area of work but nowhere else. Black 
women and men often performed the exact same tasks in 
agricultural labor, but even in that area black women could 
not rise to leadership positions. Outside the work arena, in 
day-to-day life, female slaves were treated differently from 
male slaves and were in some instanees the subordinates of 
male slaves. 

In an attempt to explain the impaet of slavery on blaek sex 
role patterns, many eontemporary seholars have eoneluded 
that the black woman was a more important figure in the 
slave household than the black male, and that as a result 
masculinity was compromised. An undue emphasis on black 
“masculinity” has emerged as sociologists and historians have 
attempted to explain the damaging effects of racist oppression 
on black people. Misinformation began circulating when 
scholars shifted the burden of responsibility away from the 
institution of slavery and its white supporters onto black 
people. As part of their effort to explain the negative impact 
of slavery on the black family without placing the blame or 
responsibility on white racism, they argued that it could be 
understood in the framework of black male-female sexual 
politics. They reasoned that as the black female’s role in the 
slave household was more important than that of the black 
male, his masculinity had been compromised and 
consequently the fabric of the black family 
structure dissolved. They identify the culprit as the 
domineering black woman. White racist colonizers distorted 
reality when they talked about the de-masculinization of black 
men. In actuality, there was nothing unusual about slave 
women assuming a dominant role in the domestic household 
in 19th century America. In so doing, they were merely 
imitating the behavior of white mistresses. The dominant role 
white women played in the 19th century domestic household 
has not led scholars to theorize about ineffectual white 
masculinity; quite the opposite has occurred. The 19th 
century is usually seen as a period in American history when 
white patriarchy was the stronghold of the American family. 

But this strong white patriarchy did not prevent 19th century 
white women from assuming the dominant role in the 
household. Nancy Cott, author of Bonds of Womanhood, 
describes the discrepancy between the patriarchal ideal that 
would have had white men be the supreme head of the 
household and the 19th century reality: 

Legally and economically the husband/father controlled the 
family, but rhetorically the vocation of domesticity gave 
women the domestic sphere for their own, to control, and 
influence. Motherhood was proposed as the central lever with 
which women would bridge the world and, in practice it 
offered the best opportunity to women to heighten their 
domestic power. The authors of “domestic education” books 
assumed that children lived mostly in the presence of their 
mothers and not their fathers, even though final authority 
(legally and conventionally) was patriarchal. 

It is safe to assume that if white women playing a dominant 
role in the 19th century domestic household did not lead to 
the de-masculinization and undermining of white male power, 
the enslaved black woman playing a dominant role in the 
slave household represented no threat to the already 
powerless black male. The major distinction between the 
familial role played by white male slaveowners and that of 
black male slaves within the sub-culture was that black men 
were denied the opportunity to act as providers for their 
families. According to some scholars, it was the inability of 
black men to adequately provide coupled with the dominant 
role played by black women in slave households that resulted 
in de-masculinization. They ignore 

two realities. First, that in 19th century America emphasis on 
the home and family as “woman’s sphere” was all pervasive. 


so that it was not unusual for the role played by blaek women 
to take preeedenee over that of blaek men. And the reality 
was that blaek men were able workers and providers, only 
white people reaped the benefits of their labor. It is ludierous 
to assume that blaek men who labored at their various tasks 
from twelve to sixteen hours a day had doubts about their 
ability to provide— and is probably more aeeurate to assert 
that enslaved blaek men, rather than feeling de-maseulinized, 
were outraged and angry that raeist oppression prevented 
them from reaping the benefits of their labor. In keeping with 
the sexual politics of 19th century America, many black slave 
men felt very strongly that it was their duty to provide for the 
economic well-being of their family and they felt bitter 
resentment and remorse that the slave system did not enable 
them to fulfill this role. Feeling remorse, anger, and 
resentment cannot be seen as synonymous with feeling 
de-masculinized. 

Enslaved black people accepted patriarchal definitions of 
male-female sex roles. They believed, as did their white 
owners, that woman’s role entailed remaining in the domestic 
household, rearing children, and obeying the will of 
husbands. Anne Scott sums up the image of the 19th century 
idealized woman in the following passage: 

This marvelous creation was described as a submissive wife 
whose reason for being was to love, honor, obey, and 
occasionally amuse her husband, to bring up his children and 
manage his household. Physically weak, and ‘formed for the 
less laborious occupations,’ she depended upon male 
protection. To secure this protection she was endowed with 
the capacity to ‘create a magic spell’ over any man in her 
vicinity. She was timid and modest, beautiful and graceful. 

‘the most fascinating being in creation... the delight and 
charm of every circle she moves in.’ 

Part of her charm lay in her innocence.... She was capable of 
acute perceptions about human relationships, and was a 
creature of tact, discernment, sympathy, and compassion. It 
was her nature to be self-denying, and she was given to 
suffering in silence, a characteristic said to endear her to men. 
Less endearing, perhaps, but no less natural, was her piety 
and her tendency to ‘restrain man’s 

natural vice and immorality.’ She was thought to be most 
deeply interested in the success of every scheme which curbs 
the passions and enforces a true morality.’ 

The “cult of true womanhood” that emerged during the 19th 
century had an intense demoralizing impact on enslaved black 
females. They were not proud of their ability to labor 
alongside men in the fields and wanted more than anything 
for their lot to be the same as that of white women. White 
male slaveowners and overseers found that slave women 
could best be manipulated by promises of a new dress, a hair 
ribbon, or a parasol—anything that emphasized their 
femininity. So great was the slave woman’s desire to appear 
feminine and ladylike that many chose to wear dresses to 
work in the fields rather than don trousers that, though more 
practical, were seen as masculine attire. Originally displaced 
African women attached no stigma to female labor in the 
fields but as they assimilated white American values they 
accepted the notion that it was debasing and degrading for 
women to work in the fields. As a farm laborer, the black 
male slave performed the same tasks he would have had to 
perform as a free person, but black women were well aware 
that it was not deemed ladylike or respectable for women to 

work in the fields. Henry Watson, a plantation owner in 
Alabama, eomplained to his daughter in 1865 about the blaek 
female workers on his plantation: 

The women say that they never mean to do anymore outdoor 
work, that white men support their wives; and they mean that 
their husbands shall support them. 

Although blaek female slaves often boasted of their work 
ability, they longed to be treated with the same regard and 
eonsideration they believed was due them as a woman’s 
privilege in patriarehal soeiety. Watson reported at a later 
date: 

The female laborers are almost invariably idle—do not go 
into the fields but desire to play the lady and be supported by 
their husbands Tike the white folks do.’ 

The faet that enslaved blaek women were foreed to labor as 
“men” and to exist independently of male proteetion and 
provision did not lead to the development of a feminist 
eonseiousness. 

They did not advoeate soeial equality between the sexes. 
Instead they bitterly resented that they were not eonsidered 
“women” by the dominant eulture and therefore were not the 
reeipients of the eonsiderations and privileges given white 
women. Modesty, sexual purity, innoeenee, and a submissive 
manner were the qualities assoeiated with womanhood and 
femininity that enslaved black women endeavored to attain 
even though the conditions under which they lived 
continually undermined their efforts. When freedom came, 
black women resolved to cease their labor in the fields. White 
plantation owners were shocked when large numbers of black 



female workers refused to work in the fields onee slavery 
ended. An examination of 1865 and 1866 plantation records 
caused Theodore Wilson to surmise that “the greatest loss to 
the labor force resulted from the decision of growing numbers 
of Negro women to donate their time to their homes and 
children.” On those plantations where black women continued 
to labor in the fields, owners complained that they left their 
cabins too late in the morning and quit too early in the 
afternoon. White Southerners expressed amazement that it 
was a matter of pride among black people for men to support 
their wives and families. In some cases whites so resented the 
loss of female workers that they charged black men extra for 
food and shelter if their wives did not work. By completely 
accepting the female role as defined by patriarchy, enslaved 
black women embraced and upheld an oppressive sexist 
social order and became (along with their white sisters) both 
accomplices in the crimes perpetrated against women and the 
victims of those crimes. 


Continued Devaluation of 
Black Womanhood 


Scholars who write about mass sexual exploitation of black 
women during slavery rarely discuss its political and social 
impact on the status of black women. In her important 
feminist analysis of rape, Against Our Will, Susan 
Brownmiller neglects this issue in the section on slavery. She 
comments: 

Rape in slavery was more than a chance tool of violence. It 
was an institutionalized crime, part and parcel of the white 
man’s subjugation of a people for economic and 
psychological gain. 

Brownmiller seemingly acknowledges the importance of 
discussing the rape of black women during slavery by 
including such a section in her book, she effectively dismisses 
it by emphasizing that this was history, past, over with. Her 
chapter is titled, “Two Studies in American Experience.” And 
she begins with the statement: 

The American experience of the slave South, which spanned 
two centuries, is a perfect study of rape in all its complexities 
for the black woman’s sexual integrity was deliberately 
crushed in order that slavery might profitably endure. 

While Brownmiller successfully impresses upon readers the 
fact that white men brutally assaulted black women during 
slavery, she minimizes the impact that oppression has had on 
all black women in America by placing it solely in the limited 
historical context of an “institutionalized crime” during 
slavery. In so doing she fails to see that the significance of the 
rape of enslaved black women was not simply that it 
“deliberately crushed” their sexual integrity for economic 
ends but that it led to a devaluation of black womanhood that 
permeated the psyches of all Americans and shaped the social 
status of all black women once slavery ended. One has only to 
look at American television twenty-four hours a day for an 
entire week to learn the way in which black women are 
perceived in American society—the predominant image is 
that of the “fallen” woman, the whore, the slut, the prostitute. 

The success of sexist-racist conditioning of American people 
to regard black women as creatures of little worth or value is 
evident when politically conscious white feminists minimize 
sexist oppression of black women, as Brownmiller does. She 
does not inform readers that white men continued to sexually 
assault black women long after slavery ended and that such 
rapes were socially sanctioned. She does not make the point 
that a primary reason rape of black women has never received 
what little attention rape of white women receives is because 
black women have always been seen by the white public as 
sexually permissive, as available and eager for the sexual 
assaults of any man, black or white. The designation of all 
black women as sexually depraved, immoral, and loose had 
its roots in the slave system. White women and men justified 
the sexual exploitation of enslaved black women by arguing 
that they were the initiators of sexual relationships with men. 
From such thinking emerged the stereotype of black women 

as sexual savages, and in sexist terms a sexual savage, a 
non-human, an animal eannot be raped. It is difficult to 
believe that Brown-miller is ignorant of these realities; I can 
only assume she deems them unimportant. 

As far back as slavery, white people established a social 
hierarchy based on race and sex that ranked white men first, 
white women second, though sometimes equal to black men, 
who are ranked third, and black women last. What this means 
in terms of the sexual politics of rape is that if one white 
woman is raped by a black man, it is seen as more important, 
more significant than if thousands of black women are raped 
by one white man. Most Americans, and that includes black 
people, acknowledge and accept this hierarchy; they have 
internalized it either consciously or unconsciously. And for 
this reason, all through American history, black male rape of 
white women has attracted much more attention and is seen as 
much more significant than rape of black women by either 
white or black men. Brownmiller further perpetuates the 
belief that the real danger to women of interracial sexual 
exploitation in American society is black male rape of white 
females. One of the longest chapters in her book is on this 
subject. It is significant that she titles her discussion of the 
rape of Native American women and black women by white 
men “a Study in American History” but titles her section of 
black male rape of white women “A Question of Race.” In the 
opening paragraph to this section she writes, “Racism and 
sexism and the fight against both converge at the point of 
interracial rape, the baffling crossroads of an authentic, 
peculiarly American dilemma.” Brownmiller fails to mention 
terms like “interracial rape” or “sexism” in her chapters 
dealing with the rape of non-white women. 


A devaluation of black womanhood occurred as a result of the 
sexual exploitation of black women during slavery that has 
not altered in the course of hundreds of years. I have 
previously mentioned that while many concerned citizens 
sympathized with the sexual exploitation of black women 
both during slavery and afterwards, like all rape victims in 
patriarchal society they were seen as having lost value and 
worth as a result of the humiliation they endured. Annals of 
slavery reveal that the same abolitionist public that 
condemned the rape of black women regarded them as 
accomplices rather than victims. In her diary, the southern 
white woman Mary Boykin Chesnut recorded; 

(March 14, 1861.) Under slavery, we live surrounded by 
prostitutes, yet an abandoned woman is sent out of any decent 
house. Who thinks any worse of a Negro or mulatto woman 
for being a thing we can’t name? God, forgive us, but ours is 
a monstrous system, a wrong and an inequity! Like the 
patriarchs of old, our men live all in one house with their 
wives and their concubines; and the mulattoes one sees in 
every family partly resemble the white children. Any lady is 
ready to tell you who is the father of all the mulatto children 
in everybody’s household but her own. Those, she seems to 
think, drop from the clouds. My disgust sometimes is boiling 
over. Thank God for my country women, but alas for the 
men! They are probably no worse than men everywhere, but 
the lower the mistress, the more degraded they must be. 

(April 20, 1861.) Bad books are not allowed house room 
except in the library under lock and key, the key is in the 
Master’s pocket; but bad women, if they are not white and 
serve in a menial capacity, may swarm the house unmolested. 
The ostrich game is thought a Christian act. These women are 
no more regarded as a dangerous eontingent than eanary birds 
would be. 

(Aug. 22,1861.) I hate slavery. You say there are no more 
fallen women on a plantation than in London, in proportion to 
numbers; but what do you say to this? A magnate who runs a 
hideous blaek harem with its eonsequenees under the same 
roof with his lovely white wife and his beautiful and 
aeeomplished daughters? 

These diary entries indieate that Chesnut held enslaved blaek 
women responsible for their fate. Her wrath and anger is 
aimed at them and not at white men. Although stereotypieal 
images of blaek womanhood during slavery were based on 
the myth that all black women were immoral and sexually 
loose, slave narratives and diaries of the 19th century present 
no evidence that they were in any way more sexually 
“liberated” than white women. The great majority of enslaved 
black women accepted the dominant culture’s sexual morality 
and adapted it to their circumstances. Black slave girls were 
taught, like their white counterparts, that virtue was woman’s 
ideal spiritual nature and virginity her ideal physical state, but 
knowledge of the acceptable sexual morality did not alter the 
reality that no social order existed to protect them from sexual 
exploitation. 

When slavery ended, black women and men welcomed their 
newly acquired freedom to express their sexuality. Like the 
early white colonizers, newly manumitted black folks were 
without any social order to govern and restrain their sexual 
behavior and indulged themselves with proper abandon. It 
must have been a good feeling for the manumitted slaves to 
suddenly have the freedom to choose a sexual partner and to 
behave in whatever manner they so desired. Some 
manumitted black women exercised their new found sexual 
freedom by engaging freely in sexual relationships with black 
men. Whites saw the sexual activity of the manumitted female 
slave as further evidence to support their claim that black 
women were sexually loose and innately morally depraved. 
They chose to ignore the fact that the great majority of black 
women and men attempted to adapt the values and behavior 
patterns deemed acceptable by whites. During the years of 
Black Reconstruction, 1867-77, black women struggled to 
change negative images of black womanhood perpetuated by 
whites. Trying to dispel the myth that all black women were 
sexually loose, they emulated the conduct and mannerisms of 
white women. But as manumitted black women and men 
struggled to change stereotypical images of black female 
sexuality, white society resisted. Everywhere black women 
went, on public streets, in shops, or at their places of work, 
they were accosted and subjected to obscene comments and 
even physical abuse at the hands of white men and women. 
Those black women suffered most whose behavior best 
exemplified that of a “lady”. A black woman dressed tidy and 
clean, carrying herself in a dignified manner, was usually the 
object of mud-slinging by white men who ridiculed and 
mocked her self-improvement efforts. They reminded her that 
in the eyes of the white public she would never be seen as 
worthy of consideration or respect. 

White journalists daily ridiculed the efforts of black people to 
improve their image in leading magazines and newspapers. 
They delighted in entertaining white readers with negative 
stereotypes of black people. Rayford Logan examines the 
extent to which leading newspapers and magazines 
deliberately perpetuated negative myths and stereotypes about 
black people in his study of the period from 1877 to 1918, 
The Betrayal of the 

Negro. Logan acknowledges that whites made a concerted 
effort to perpetuate the myth that all black women were 
sexually loose and immoral. He eomments: 

The alleged unchastity of Negro women in general was 
analyzed in an article in the Atlantic. The praetiee was 
attributed to their laek of coneern for sexual purity and to the 
free use that white men made of them. The author added that 
the sexual immorality of Negro women was a deterrent to 
loose morals between white men and white women. 

Articles of this type were aimed at maintaining separation of 
the races. They eonvinced white readers that they would not 
want to live as soeial equals with blaek people by arguing that 
contact with the loose morals of blacks (and particularly those 
of black women) would lead to a breakdown of all moral 
values. The white publie justified white male sexual assault of 
black females by arguing that the women invited sexual abuse 
by their lack of morals. 

Sexual exploitation of black women undermined the morale 
of newly manumitted black people. For it seemed to them that 
if they could not change negative images of black 
womanhood they would never be able to uplift the race as a 
whole. Married or single, ehild or woman, the black female 
was a likely target for white male rapists. Young black girls 
were admonished by concerned parents to avoid walking 
down isolated streets and to avoid contact with white men 
whenever possible. While these practices eurtailed sexual 
exploitation, it was not eliminated beeause most sexual 
assaults oceurred on jobs. A young, newly married black 
woman employed as eook for a white female reported that 
only a short period of time lapsed before she was aeeosted by 
the white husband; 

I remember very well the first and last work plaee from whieh 
I was dismissed. I lost my plaee beeause I refused to let the 
madam’s husband kiss me. He must have been aeeustomed to 
undue familiarity with his servants, or else he took it as a 
matter of eourse, beeause without any lovemaking at all, soon 
after I was installed as a eook, he walked up to me, threw his 
arms around me, and was in the aet of kissing me, when I 
demanded to know what he 

meant, and shoved him away. I was young then, and newly 
married, and didn’t know then what has been a burden to my 
mind and heart ever sinee, that a eolored woman’s virtue in 
this part of the eountry has no proteetion. I at onee went 
home, and told my husband about it. When my husband went 
to the man who had insulted me, the man eursed him, and 
slapped him, and—had him arrested! The poliee judge fined 
my husband $25. I was present at the hearing and testified on 
oath to the insult offered me. The white man, of eourse, 
denied the eharge. The old judge looked up and said, “This 
eourt will never take the word of a nigger against the word of 
a white man.*’ 

Blaek women were often eoereed into sexual liaisons with 
white employers who would threaten to fire them unless they 
eapitulated to sexual demands. One blaek woman stated: 

I believe nearly all white men take, and expeet to take undue 
liberties with their eolored female servants—not only the 
father, but in many eases the sons also. Those servants who 
rebel against sueh familiarity must either leave or expeet a 
mighty hard time, if they stay. By eomparison those who 
tamely admit to these improper relations live in clover. They 
always have a little spending change, wear better clothes, and 
are able to get off from work at least once a week—and 
sometimes oftener. This moral debasement is not at all times 
unknown to the white women in these homes. I know of more 
than one colored woman who was openly importuned by 
white women to become the mistresses of their white 
husbands, on the grounds that they, the white wives, were 
afraid that, if their husbands did not associate with colored 
women, they would certainly do so with outside white 
women, and the white wives, for reasons which ought to be 
perfectly obvious, preferred to have their husbands do wrong 
with the colored women in order to keep their husbands 
straight. 

The sexual assault of black women was so prevalent in both 
the North and the South after slavery ended that outraged 
black women and men wrote articles in newspapers and 
magazines pleading with the American public to take action 
against white and black male offenders who assaulted black 
women. An article published in the January 1912 issue of the 
Independent written by a black nurse pleaded for an end to 
sexual abuse: 

We poor colored women wage-earners in the South are 
fighting a terrible battle.... On the one hand, we are assailed 
by white men, and, on the other hand, we are assailed by 
black men, who should be our natural protectors; and whether 
in the cook kitchen, at the washtub, over the sewing machine, 
behind the baby carriage, or at the ironing board, we are but 
little more than pack horses, beasts of burden, slaves! In the 
distant future, it may be, centuries and centuries hence, a 
monument of brass or stone will be ereeted to the Old Black 
Mammies of the South, but what we need is present help, 
present sympathy, better wages, better hours, more protection, 
and a chance to breathe for once while alive as free women. 

When black people urged the white public to aid them in their 
struggles to protect black womanhood, their appeals fell on 
deaf ears. So pervasive was the tendency of whites to regard 
all black women as sexually loose and unworthy of respect 
that their achievements were ignored. Even if an individual 
black female became a lawyer, doctor, or teacher, she was 
likely to be labeled a whore or prostitute by whites. All black 
women, irrespective of their circumstances, were lumped into 
the category of available sex objects. As late as the 60s, black 
woman playwright Lorraine Hansberry in To Be Young, 
Gifted, and Black included scenes that dramatized the way in 
which all black women are perceived by whites (and in 
particular white men), as available sex objects, as prostitutes. 
In the play a young black domestic worker says: 

All right. So now you know something ‘bout me you didn’t 
know! In these streets out there, any little white boy from 
Long Island or Westchester sees me and leans out of his car 
and yells—”Hey there, hot choclate! Say there Jezebel! Hey 
you—’Hundred Dollar Misunderstanding! YOU! Bet you 
know where there’s a good time tonight....” 

Lollow me sometimes and see if I lie. I can be coming home 
from eight hours on an assembly line or fourteen hours in 
Mrs. Halsey’s kitchen. I can be all filled up that day with 
three hundred years of rage so that my eyes are flashing and 
my flesh is trembling—and the white boys in the streets, they 
look at me and think of sex. They look at me and that’s all 
they think... Baby, you could be Jesus in drag—^but if you’re 
brown they’re sure you’re selling! 

Hansberry shows that this attitude toward black women 
transcended class boundaries. Later in the play a chic black 
professional woman of middle-age speaks: 

’Hey there, hot chocolate! Say there, Jezebel! YOU...! The 
white boys in the streets, they look at me and think of sex. 
They look at me and that’s all they think! 

Like Susan Brownmiller, most people tend to see devaluation 
of black womanhood as occurring only in the context of 
slavery. In actuality, sexual exploitation of black women 
continued long after slavery ended and was institutionalized 
by other oppressive practices. Devaluation of black 
womanhood after slavery ended was a conscious, deliberate 
effort on the part of whites to sabotage mounting black female 
self-confidence and self-respect. In Black Women in White 
America, Gerda Lerner discusses the “complex system of 
supportive mechanisms and sustaining myths” white women 
and men established to encourage sexual exploitation of black 
women and to ensure no change would occur in their social 
status: 

One of these was the myth of the “bad” black woman. By 
assuming a different level of sexuality for all Blacks than that 
of whites and mythifying their greater sexual potency, the 
black woman could be made to personify sexual freedom and 
abandon. A myth was created that all black women were 
eager for sexual exploits, voluntarily “loose’ in their morals 
and, therefore deserved none of the consideration and respect 
granted white women. Every black woman was, by definition. 
a slut according to this racist mythology; therefore, to assault 
her and exploit her sexually was not reprehensible and carried 
with it none of the normal communal sanctions against such 
behavior. A wide range of practices reinforced this myth: the 
laws against intermarriage; the denial of the title “Miss” or 
“Mrs.” to any black woman; the taboos against respectable 
soeial mixing of the raees; the refusal to let black women 
customers try on clothing in stores before making a purehase; 
the assigning of single toilet facilities to both sexes of Blacks; 
the different legal sanction against rape, abuse of minors and 
other sex erimes when eommitted against white or black 
women. 

Systematic devaluation of black womanhood was not simply 
a 

direct consequence of race hatred, it was a caleulated method 
of social control. During the reconstruetion years, manumitted 
blaek people had demonstrated that given the same 
opportunities as whites they could excel in all areas. Their 
accomplishments were a direct challenge to raeist notions 
about the inherent inferiority of dark races. In those glorious 
years, it seemed that blaek people would quickly and 
successfully assimilate and amalgamate into the mainstream 
of Ameriean eulture. White people reacted to the progress of 
black people by attempting to return to the old soeial order. 
To maintain white supremaey they established a new soeial 
order based on apartheid. The period in American history is 
commonly known as the Jim Crow or “separate but equal” 
years, but both phrases shift attention away from the fact that 
separation of the raees once slavery ended was a deliberate 
political move on the part of white supremacists. As 
miscegenation represented the greatest threat to white racial 
solidarity, a complex system of laws and social taboos was 
enacted to maintain separation of the races. In most states 
laws were enacted forbidding inter-racial marriage, but such 
laws did not prevent blacks and whites from uniting. 
Manumitted black men and white women in northern states 
were married in noticeable numbers. White men, who so 
desired, legalized relationships with ex-slave women. A 
report of a marriage between a white man and a black woman 
published in a New Orleans newspaper, the Tribune, carried 
the headlines, “The World Moves.” In the article, the 
journalist advised other white men to “take a hint now that the 
law allows it legitimize their children.” Inter-racial marriages 
between black women and white men evoked fear and rage in 
the white public. White male legalized sexual unions with 
black women and black male legalized sexual unions with 
white women threatened the entire foundation of apartheid. 
Since anti-amalgamation laws were not sufficient deterrents 
to interracial marriage, white men used psychological warfare 
to enforce the ideal of white supremacy. They employed two 
important myths to brainwash all whites against the newly 
manumitted blacks: the myth of the “bad,” sexually loose 
black woman and the myth of the black male rapist. Neither 
myth 

was based on fact. 

At no time in the early part of the 20th century were any large 
numbers of black men raping white women or seeking illicit 
relationships with them. Joseph Washington, Jr.’s, study of 
inter-racial union. Marriage in Black and White, documents 
the fact that black men who sought relationships with white 
women were eager for marriage. White people were never 
reacting to any high incidence of inter-racial rape during 
reconstruction; they simply wanted to prevent inter-racial 
marriage. They used lynchings, castration, and other brutal 
punishments to prevent black men from initiating 
relationships with white women. They perpetuated the myth 
that all black men were eager to rape white women so that 
white females would not seek friendships with black men for 
fear of brutal assault. The horrific nature of violent attacks on 
black manhood has caused historiographers and sociologists 
to assume that whites feared unions between white women 
and black men most. In actuality, they feared legally 
sanctioned racial mixing on the part of the sexes of either 
group, but as black men were more likely to seek legal 
sanction through marriage of their relationships with white 
women, they received the brunt of attacks by white 
supremacists. By brainwashing white women to see black 
men as savage beasts, white supremacists were able to 
implant enough fear in the white female’s psyche so that she 
would avoid any contact with black men. 

In the case of black women and white men, inter-racial sex 
was both encouraged and condoned as long as it did not lead 
to marriage. By perpetuating the myth that all black women 
were incapable of fidelity and sexually loose, whites hoped to 
so devalue them that no white man would marry a black 
woman. After manumission, white men who treated black 
women with respect or sought to integrate a black female into 
respectable white society were persecuted and ostracized. 
During slavery, it had been a common occurrence for an 
upper class or middle class white man to take a black woman 
mistress and live openly with her without incurring much 
public disapproval. In Roll, Jordan, Roll Eugene Genovese 
comments: 

Some prominent planters flaunted their slave mistresses 
and mulatto children. David Dickson of Georgia, one of the 
most celebrated leaders in the movement to reform southern 
agriculture, lost his wife early in life, took a mistress, and 
accepted a measure of social disapproval to live openly with 
her and their ehildren. Bennett H. Barrow of Louisiana 
exploded with rage over similar conduct on the part of his 
neighbors. His fellow planters of West Feliciana Parish were, 
he said, of course all opponents of the abolitionists. “Yet, the 
people submit to amalgamation in its worst form in this 
Parish. Josias Grey takes his mulatto children with him to 
public places, etc. and receives similar company from New 
Orleans...” The first mayor of Memphis, Marcus Winchester, 
had a beautiful quadroon mistress whom he married and took 
to Louisiana. His successor, Ike Rawlins, lived with a slave 
woman. He did not marry her but did provide handsomely for 
their sons. And the haughty nabobs of Natches had their own 
scandals. Other white observers report such relationships, 
displayed publicly and accepted by society with nothing 
worse than muttering and minor social ostracism. Several 
daughters of wealthy free Negroes married respectable white 
men. 

Marriages between black women and white men could be 
tolerated during slavery because they were so few in number 
and represented no threat to the white supremacist regime. 
After manumission they were no longer tolerated. In the state 
of Kentucky, the Supreme Court was asked to judge insane a 
white man who desired to marry a female slave he had once 
owned. Once slavery ended and whites declared that no black 
woman regardless of her class status or skin color could ever 
be a “lady,” it was no longer socially acceptable for a white 
man to have a black mistress. Instead, the institutionalized 
devaluation of black womanhood encouraged all white men to 


regard black females as whores or prostitutes. Lower class 
white men, who had had little sexual contact with black 
women during slavery, were encouraged to believe they were 
entitled to access to the bodies of black women. In large cities 
their lust for black female sex objects led to the formation of 
numerous houses of prostitution which supplied black bodies 
to meet the growing demands of white men. The myth 
perpetuated by whites that black women were the possessors 
of a heightened sexuality encouraged white male rapists and 
sexual exploiters. This myth 

so dominated the psyches of whites that a southern white 
male writer asserts: 

I knew all about the sexual act, but not until I was twelve 
years old did I know that it was performed with white women 
for pleasure; I had thought that only Negro women engaged in 
the act of love with white men just for fun, because they were 
the only ones with the animal desire to submit that way. 

Racial integration in the latter part of the 20th century caused 
many barriers against inter-racial marriages to be torn down. 
Yet the amalgamation of the races that sociologists had 
predicted might take place did not occur. While black men 
married white women in ever-increasing numbers, large 
numbers of white men did not marry black women. These 
differences in responses were no accident. While changes in 
public attitudes toward black men had occurred, there had not 
been any change in negative images of black women. The 
myth that all black men were rapists had ceased to dominate 
the consciousness of the American public by the 70s. One 
explanation for the change was the growing knowledge of the 
way in which this myth was used by whites in power to 
persecute and torture black men. Once the myth was no 

longer accepted as absolute truth, white women who so 
desired could freely engage in relationships with black men 
and vice versa. 

The success of movies like Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner 
and The Great White Hope revealed that the white American 
public was not averse to acknowledging attractions between 
black men and white women that led to marriage. The 
public’s acceptance of these movies indicates that it no longer 
feared black males and white females uniting. While the myth 
that all black men are rapists is no longer perpetuated by a 
majority of whites, they continue to promote the myth that all 
black women are sexually loose and they use devaluation of 
black womanhood as a way to discourage marriage between 
large numbers of white men and black women. White 
Americans have legally relinquished the apartheid structure 
that once characterized race relations but they have not given 
up white rule. Given that power in capitalist patriarchal 
America is in the hands of white men, the present obvious 
threat to white 

solidarity is inter-marriage between white men and non-white 
women, and in particular black women. As whites have been 
much more voyeuristically, phobically interested in sexual 
relationships between white women and black men, the 
existence of rigid social taboos prohibiting white male 
marriage to black females is often totally ignored, yet such 
taboos may prove to have far greater impact on our society 
than taboos against black male-white female mating. The 
white American public that could dismiss with disinterest 
contemporary showings of movies like Guess Who’s Coming 
to Dinner that depict black male marriage to a white woman 
on national television reacted with outrage and anger when a 
day time soap opera. Days of Our Lives, aired a program in 




which a respectable young white male was shown falling in 
love with a black female. 

Taboos against white women mating with black men were 
maintained by white men because they were interested in 
limiting the sexual freedom of white women and insuring that 
their female “property” was not trespassed on by black men. 
Now that improved male-invented contraceptive devices have 
diminished the emphasis on female sexual purity and 
provided all men greater access to women’s bodies, white 
men have shown less interest in overseeing the sexual 
activities of white women. In contemporary times, marriages 
between blaek men and white women are more readily 
accepted and oceur in ever inereasing numbers. Explanations 
as to why marriages between white women and blaek men are 
more readily accepted than marriages between white men and 
black women can be found in patriarehal sexual politics. 
Since white women represent a powerless group when not 
allied with powerful white men, their marriage to black men 
is no great threat to existing white patriarchal rule. In our 
patriarchal society if a wealthy white woman marries a black 
man she legally adopts his status. Aecordingly a black woman 
who marries a white man adopts his status; she takes his name 
and their ehildren are his heirs. Consequently, if a large 
majority of that small group of white men who dominate 
deeision-making bodies in American society were to marry 
black women, the foundation of white rule would be 
threatened. 

A complex system of negative myths and stereotypes daily 
socializes white men to regard black women as unsuitable 
marriage partners. In American history, white men have never 
sought to marry black women in as great numbers as black 

men have sought to marry white women. Scholars have 
argued that since white men have always had “free,” 
unlimited access to the bodies of black women they have seen 
no need to legitimize these relationships by marriage. This 
argument fails to show consideration of the various factors 
that determine marriage suitability. Joseph Washington 
comments: 

White men have failed to be serious in their relationships with 
the black woman in comparison to the seriousness of 
relationships between the black man and the white woman. 

He offers as an explanation for this attitude white male 
perception of black women as “beasts,” sexual savages who 
are unfit for marriage. Washington does not discuss the fact 
that white people deliberately perpetuate myths about black 
female bestial sexuality so as to discourage white men from 
seeing black women as suitable marriage partners. Whites 
condone inter-racial relationships between black women and 
white men only in the context of degrading sex. The mass 
media, especially television, is one way that negative images 
of black womanhood continue to be impressed upon all our 
psyches. In the daytime soap opera in which the young white 
man falls in love with a black female, she is depicted solely in 
terms of negative stereotypes. Her features are distorted by 
excessive make-up, a greasy type substance is used on her 
lips in order to make them look thicker than they are; she 
wears a wig and dresses in garments that cause her to seem 
slightly overweight. In real life the black woman in no way 
resembles the character she portrays on the soap, and she is 
the only character who is made to look radically different, 
whose features are grossly distorted. Without the distortions 
she is a healthy, attractive looking woman who in no way 

resembles white people’s negative stereotype of black 
women. Significantly, the facial features of the white woman 
who is her rival are not altered in any way. In recent years, 
the most revolting image of black womanhood on 
television was portrayed in a situation comedy called 
Detective School. There the black woman is constantly 
ridiculed for her ugliness, her bad temper, etc. White men in 
the show are either mocking her or attacking her physically. 
The white women she is contrasted with are blonde and 
stereotypically attractive. In other television shows the 
predominant image of black women is that of the sex object, 
prostitute, and whore, etc. The second image is that of the 
overweight nagging maternal figure. Even those shows that 
have cast black female children depict them within the 
framework of negative stereotypes. The little black girl on the 
situation comedy What’s Happening was portrayed as a 
miniature Sapphire—constantly nagging and telling tales on 
her brother. Black women have fared no better in American 
film. A recent film with another image of black womanhood 
was Remember My Name, a movie that was glorifying the 
toughness of today’s “liberated” white woman. Significantly, 
a measure of her toughness is that she is able to beat and 
brutalize a black woman who just happens to have a white 
boyfriend. The images of black women that are seen as 
positive usually are those that depict the black woman as a 
longsuffering, religious, maternal figure, whose most 
endearing characteristic is her self-sacrificing self-denial for 
those she loves. 

Negative images of black women in television and film are 
not simply impressed upon the psyches of white males, they 
affect all Americans. Black mothers and fathers constantly 
complain that television lowers the self-confidence and 

self-esteem of blaek girls. Even on television eommereials the 
black female child is rarely visible—largely because 
sexist-racist Americans tend to see the black male as the 
representative of the black race. So commercials and 
advertisements in magazines may portray a white female and 
male but feel that it is enough to have a black male to 
represent black people. The same logic occurs in regular 
television programs. On many shows there are single black 
male figures or single black female figures but rarely are a 
black woman and man together. In some instances as is often 
the case on Saturday Night Live, black men dress in female 
clothing and portray black women, usually mocking and 
ridiculing them. Whites who control media 
exclude black women so as to emphasize their undesirability 
either as friends or sexual partners. This also promotes 
divisiveness between black men and black women, for white 
people are saying via their manipulation of black roles that 
they accept black men but not black women. And black 
women are not accepted because they are seen as a threat to 
the existing race-sex hierarchy. 

While negative images of black womanhood are used to 
impress upon white men their undesirability as marriage 
partners, the belief that all white men desire from black 
women is illicit sex prevents black women from seeking such 
unions. Just as whites have not been interested in myths and 
stereotypes black people perpetuate about them, there is little 
discussion of the fact that the idea that all white men are eager 
to rape black women continues to be a widespread belief in 
black communities. Of course this belief was once based on 
the actual fact that for many years large numbers of white 
men could and did sexually exploit black women. The fact 
that this may no longer be the case has not caused black 


people (and in partieular black men) to change their attitudes, 
largely because many black people are just as committed to 
racial solidarity as white people and they believe it can best 
be maintained by discouraging legalized union between white 
men and black women. 

Black men have a vested interest in maintaining existing 
barriers which discourage black female-white male marriage, 
for it eliminates sexual competition. Just as sexist white folks 
used the idea that all black men were rapists to limit the 
sexual freedom of white women, black people employ the 
same tactic to control black female sexual behavior. For many 
years, black people warned black females to beware 
involvement with white men for fear such relationships would 
lead to exploitation and degradation of black womanhood. 
While there is no need to deny the historical fact that white 
men have sexually exploited black women, this knowledge is 
used by the white and black public as a psychological weapon 
to limit and restrain the freedom of black females. Black 
females who have been socialized by parents to feel 
threatened or even terrorized by contact with white men often 
have difficulty relating to white male employers, teachers, 
doctors, etc. There are many black women 
who have as phobic a fear about white male sexuality as the 
fear white women have traditionally felt towards black men. 
Phobic fear is not a solution to the problem of sexual 
exploitation or rape. It is a symptom. While an awareness of 
male power to rape women with impunity in a patriarchal 
society is necessary for woman’s survival, it is even more 
important that women realize that they can prevent such 
assaults and protect themselves should they occur. 


In a class on Black Women I taught at the University of 
Southern California, black female students discussed their 
fear of white men and their anger and rage that white men 
approached them at jobs, in restaurants, hallways, or on 
elevators and made sexual overtures. Most women in the class 
agreed that to avoid these negative eneounters they are never 
friendly with white men, ignore them, or send hostile 
vibrations in their direetion. They also acknowledged that 
many aggressive sexual overtures by white men, seen as 
insulting and negative, were casually dismissed or even seen 
as positive when made by black men. Since they perceived 
white male sexual overtures as racist, they could not 
understand that the sexism motivating these aets was not that 
different from the sexism motivating aggressive sexual 
overtures of blaek men. 

The emphasis on the white male as sexual exploiter in black 
communities often deflects attention away from black male 
sexual exploitation of black women. Many black parents who 
warned their daughters against the sexual overtures of white 
men did not warn them about black male exploiters. Since 
blaek men were seen as possible marriage candidates, it was 
more acceptable for them to eajole and seduce black women 
into potentially sexually exploitative relationships. While 
black parents admonished daughters not to submit to sexual 
assaults by white men, they were not encouraging them to 
rejeet similar approaehes from black men. This is just another 
indication of the way in whieh the pervasive concern black 
people have about racism allows them to conveniently ignore 
the reality of sexist oppression. They have not been willing to 
acknowledge that while raeism eaused white men to make 
black women targets, it was and is sexism that causes all men 
to think that they can 


verbally or physically assault women sexually with impunity. 
In the final analysis, in the case of white male sexual 
exploitation of black women, it is the sexism motivating these 
assaults that is important and not just the racial background of 
the men who initiate them. It was common during the sixties’ 
black power movement for black men to overemphasize white 
male sexual exploitation of black womanhood as a way to 
explain their disapproval of inter-racial relationships 
involving the two groups. Often they were merely interested 
in controlling black females sexually. While self-proclaimed 
black nationalist male leaders felt that it was no contradiction 
of their political views to have white women companions 
(after all they were only exercising their right as “men” in a 
patriarchal society to do as they please in their private life) 
they were horrified, outraged, and angry with black women 
who accepted white male companions. There has yet to be a 
prominent black female political activist who has shown a 
marked preference for white male companions and if there 
were, such a relationship would not be at all acceptable to 
black people. 

White males who desire friendships or marriage with black 
females often find their friendly overture rebuffed or 
dismissed by the woman in question. Male scholars, black 
and white, who have written about inter-racial marriage 
practices (Marriage in Black and White, Sexual Racism, Sex 
and Racism in America) fail to mention that more marriages 
do not take place between white men and black women 
because of the reluctance of black females. Black women who 
date or marry white men find that they cannot endure the 
harassment and persecution by black and white people. In 
some instances black men who are themselves involved in 
inter-racial relationships act contemptuously towards black 

women who exercise the same freedom of choice. They see 
their own behavior as acceptable because they view white 
women as victims, while they see white men as oppressors. 
So in their eyes a black woman involved with a white man is 
allying herself with a racist oppressor. But their tendency to 
see white women as innocent, as non-racist is yet another 
reflection of their acceptance of sexist idealization of woman. 
For white women have historically 

shown themselves to be as capable of being racist oppressors 
as white men. Another tactic many black men employ to 
explain their acceptance of inter-racial relationships with 
white women and their condemnation of black female-white 
male relations is to assert that they are exploiting white 
women like white men exploited black women. They evoke a 
false sense of avenging themselves against racism to mask 
their sexist exploitative feelings about white women and 
finally all women. The collective effort on the part of white 
and black people to curtail marriage and even friendship 
between black women and white men serves to help maintain 
white patriarchal rule and to support continued devaluation of 
black womanhood. 

Systematic devaluation of black womanhood led to a 
downgrading of any activity black women did. Many black 
women attempted to shift the focus of attention away from 
sexuality by emphasizing their commitment to motherhood. 
As participants in the “cult of true womanhood” that reached 
its peak in early 20th century America, they endeavored to 
prove their value and worth by demonstrating that they were 
women whose lives were firmly rooted in the family. They 
worked diligently in service jobs to provide economically for 
their children, and demonstrated their love by incredible 
self-sacrifice. While their efforts were acknowledged by the 

American public, whites deliberately cast them in a negative 
light. They labeled hard-working, self-sacrificing black 
women who were concerned with creating a loving, 
supportive environment for their families Aunt Jemimas, 
Sapphires, Amazons—all negative images that were based 
upon existing sexist stereotypes of womanhood. In more 
recent years the labeling of black women matriarchs emerged 
as yet another attempt by the white male power structure to 
cast the positive contributions of black women in a negative 
light. All the negative stereotypes used to characterize black 
women were anti-woman. As sexist ideology has been 
accepted by black people, these negative myths and 
stereotypes have effectively transcended class and race 
boundaries and affected the way black women were perceived 
by members of their own race and the way they perceived 
themselves. 

Many of the anti-black-woman stereotypes originated during 
slavery. Long before sociologists perpetuated theories about 
the existence of a black matriarchy, white male slave-owners 
created a body of myths to discredit the contributions of black 
females; one such myth was the notion that they were all 
masculinized sub-human creatures. Black female slaves had 
shown that they were capable of performing so-called 
“manly” labor, that they were able to endure hardship, pain, 
and privation but could also perform those so-called 
“womanly” tasks of housekeeping, cooking, and child rearing. 
Their ability to cope effectively in a sexist-defined “male” 
role threatened patriarchal myths about the nature of woman’s 
inherent physiological difference and inferiority. By forcing 
black female slaves to perform the same work tasks as black 
male slaves, white male patriarchs were contradicting their 
own sexist order that claimed woman to be inferior because 


she lacked physical prowess. An explanation had to be 
provided to explain why black women were able to perform 
tasks that were cited by patriarchs as jobs women were 
incapable of performing. To explain the black female’s ability 
to survive without the direct aid of a male and her ability to 
perform tasks that were culturally defined as “male” work, 
white males argued that black slave women were not “real” 
women but were masculinized sub-human creatures. It is not 
unlikely that white men feared that white women, witnessing 
the black female slave’s ability to cope as effectively in the 
work force as men, might develop ideas about social equality 
between the sexes and encourage political solidarity between 
black and white women. Whatever the reason, black women 
posed so great a threat to the existing patriarchy that white 
men perpetuated the notion that black women possessed 
unusual masculine-like characteristics not common to the 
female species. To prove their point, they often forced black 
women to labor at difficult jobs while black male slaves stood 
idle. 

The unwillingness of present-day scholars to accept as a 
positive step social equality between the sexes in any sphere 
led to the formation of the theory that a black matriarchy 
existed in the black family structure. Male social scientists 
formulated theories about the matriarchal power of black 
females to provide 

an out-of-the-ordinary explanation for the independent and 
decisive role black women played within the black family 
structure. Like their slaveowning ancestors, racist scholars 
acted as if black women fulfilling their role as mothers and 
economic providers were performing a unique action that 
needed a new definition even though it was not uncommon 
for many poor and widowed white women to perform this 

dual role. Yet they labeled black women matriarchs—a title 
that in no way accurately described the social status of black 
women in America. No matriarchy has ever existed in the 
United States. 

At the very time sociologists proclaimed the existence of a 
matriarchal order in the black family structure, black women 
represented one of the largest socially and economically 
deprived groups in America whose status in no way 
resembled that of a matriarch. Political activist Angela Davis 
writes of the label matriarch: 

The designation of the black woman as a matriarch is a cruel 
misnomer because it ignores the profound traumas the black 
woman must have experienced when she had to surrender her 
child-bearing to alien and predatory economic interest. 

The term matriarch implies the existence of a social order in 
which women exercise social and political power, a state 
which in no way resembles the condition of black women or 
all women in American society. The decisions that determine 
the way in which black women must live their lives are made 
by others, usually white men. If sociologists are to casually 
label black women matriarchs, they should also label female 
children playing house and acting out the role of mother 
matriarchs. For in both instances, no real effective power 
exists that allows the females in question to control their own 
destiny. 

In their article “Is the Black Male Castrated,” Jean Bond and 
Pauline Perry write of the matriarchy myth: 


The casting of this image of the black female in sociological 
bold relief is both consistent and logical in racist terms, for 
the so-called Black matriarch is a kind of folk character 
largely fashioned by whites out of half truths and lies about 
the involuntary conditions of black women. 

The misuse of the term matriarch has led many people to 
identify any woman present in a household where no male 
resides a matriarch. Although anthropologists disagree about 
whether or not matriarchal societies ever really existed, an 
examination of available information about the supposed 
social structure of matriarchies proves without any doubt that 
the social status of the matriarch was in no way similar to that 
of black women in the United States. Within the matriarchal 
society woman was almost always economically secure. The 
economic situation of black women in United States has 
never been secure. While the average median income of 
employed black men has in recent years often surpassed the 
average median income of white females, the wages black 
women receive on the average remain considerably lower 
than that of both white females and black males. The 
matriarch was most often the owner of property. Since black 
women receive on the average low or middle incomes, only a 
few individuals are able to secure and hold property. Within 
the woman-centered society, the matriarch assumes the 
authoritative role in government and home life. 
Anthropologist Helen Diner found in her research on 
matriarchs that the position of the woman was like that of the 
man in patriarchal society. Commenting on the matriarchal 
role. Diner states, “If one sees her perform heavy labor while 
the male lounges or putters about the house, it is because he is 
not permitted to perform or decide important things.” 

Although white sociologists would have all Americans 
believe that the black female is often the “man of the house,” 
this is rarely the case. Even in single-parent homes, black 
mothers may go so far as to delegate the responsibility of 
being the “man” to male children. In some single-parent 
homes where no male is present, it is acceptable for a visiting 
male friend or lover to assume a decision-making role. Few 
black women, even in homes where no men are present, see 
themselves as adopting a “male” role. Concurrently in 
American political life few black women exercise 
decision-making power. While it is true that in contemporary 
times more black women can be seen in the political arena 
than ever before in history, in proportion to the population of 
black women this number is 

relatively small. The Joint Center for Political Studies located 
in Washington D.C. reported on the extent to which sexism 
and racism have led to under-representation of black women 
in government, and their study revealed; 

Black females in America have more than doubled their 
presence among elected officials in the four years since 1969. 
Yet, even today, they account for only about 12% of black 
elected officials and are an “infinitesimally” small percentage 
of the elected office holders in the nation the survey revealed. 
The report continues by saying there are about seven million 
black women of voting age in the country, but they hold only 
336 of the more than 520,000 elective offices in the country. 
Yet the total number of black women office holders today 
represent about 160% increase over their number four years 
ago. 

Many features that anthropologists claim characterize 
matriarchal social structure resemble privileges and rights 



feminists are fighting to obtain. One sueh feature of 
matriarehal soeiety was the eomplete eontrol women had over 
their bodies. Diner asserts, “Above all the woman possessed 
free disposition over her body and may interrupt pregnancy 
whenever she wishes or prevent it all together.” The inability 
of women in modem society to gain control over their bodies 
in regards to childbirth has been a primary impetus behind the 
women’s liberation movement. Lower class women and 
consequently many black women have the least control over 
their bodies. In most states, women with enough money, 
(particularly upper and middle class white women), have 
always been able to rid themselves of unwanted pregnancies. 
It has been poor women, black and white, who have had the 
fewest opportunities to exercise control over their 
reproductive activities. Diner cities many other characteristics 
common to matriarchal societies which in no way parallel 
patterns of behavior common to black women. Studying the 
preferred sex of children in the matriarchal culture. Diner 
found, “Female children are preferred because they continue 
the family which boys cannot.” Black women, like most 
women in patriarchal societies prefer the birth of sons, as our 
society esteems the male child and often ignores or berates 
the female child. In the female-dominated 
state, domestic work was considered degrading to the woman 
just as it is considered beneath the male’s dignity in a 
male-dominated society. Black women perform most of the 
domestic work in their own homes and in the homes of others. 
Marriage in the matriarchal state offered women the same 
privileges rewarded to men in the patriarchal state. Diner 
contends: 

In marriage obedience is demanded of the male as was 
specified in the marriage contracts of ancient Egypt. He also 


106 



must remain faithful, while the wife remains uneneumbered. 
She also retains the right of divoree and repudiation. 

Blaek women have been restrieted in these areas as have most 
women in patriarehal soeieties. 

As is obvious, this eursory eomparison of the status of 
matriarehs with that of blaek women reveals few similarities. 
Although various people have written essays and artieles that 
diseredit the theory that a blaek matriarehy exists, the term 
eontinues to be widely used to deseribe the status of blaek 
women. It is readily evoked by those white people who wish 
to perpetuate negative images of blaek womanhood. At the 
onset of the emergenee of the matriarehy myth it was used to 
diseredit blaek women and men. Blaek women were told that 
they had overstepped the bonds of femininity beeause they 
worked outside the home to provide eeonomie suppoort for 
their families and that by so doing they had de-maseulinized 
blaek men. Blaek men were told that they were weak, 
effeminate, and eastrated beeause “their” women were 
laboring at menial jobs. 

White male seholars who examined the blaek family by 
attempting to see in what ways it resembled the white family 
strueture were eonfident that their data was not biased by their 
own personal prejudiees against women assuming an aetive 
role in family deeision-making. But it must be remembered 
that these white males were edueated in an elite institutional 
world that exeluded both blaek people and many white 
women, institutions that were both raeist and sexist. 
Consequently, when they observed blaek families, they ehose 
to see the independenee, will power, and initiative of blaek 


107 



women as an attack on the masculinity of black men. Their 
sexism blinded them to the 

obvious positive benefits to both black men and women that 
occurred when black females assumed an active role in 
parenting. They argued that the black woman’s performance 
of an active role in family life both as mothers and providers 
had deprived black men of their patriarchal status in the 
home. And this argument was used to explain the large 
numbers of female-headed households, the assumption being 
that black men had vacated their parenting roles because of 
domineering black women, whose dominance was attributed 
to their being economic providers while black men were 
unemployed. 

The belief that men naturally want to provide for the 
economic well-being of their families and therefore feel 
de-masculinized if unemployment or low wages prevent them 
from so doing seems an out-of-place and totally false 
assumption in a society where men are taught to expect 
rewards for their provision. The structure of marriage in 
patriarchal society is based on a system of exchange, one in 
which men are traditionally taught to provide economically 
for women and children in exchange for sexual, 
housekeeping, and nurturing services. The argument that 
black men have been emasculated because they were not 
always able to assume the patriarchal role of provider is based 
on the assumption that black men feel that they should 
provide for their families and therefore feel unmanned or 
guilty if they cannot do so. Yet such an assumption does not 
appear to be based on actual fact. In many homes, black men 
who are employed are not eager to give money to wives and 
children and are even resentful that they are expected to share 
hard-earned low wages with others. Concurrently, despite the 


108 



fact that the American capitalist economic structure forces 
many blaek men to be unemployed, there are some black men 
who would rather not work “shit” jobs with endless hassles 
and little monetary reward if they can survive without them; 
these men do not have doubts about their masculinity. To 
many of them a low paying menial job is more an attaek on 
their maseulinity than no job at all. While I do not mean to 
imply that there have not been large numbers of black men 
concerned with being providers, it is important that we 
remember that the desire to provide is not an innate male 
instinct. 

Surveys of groups of women from all races and elasses who 
attempt to get ehild eare payments from ex-husbands would 
provide ample evidence of the reluctanee of men to assume 
provider roles. It is more likely that lower-middle and middle 
class black men who have absorbed standard definitions of 
masculinity would feel that it is important to provide 
eeonomically for families and eonsequently feel ashamed, 
even de-maseulinized if unable to assume the provider role. 
But at the time of the emergence of the matriarchy myth as 
popular social theory, the great majority of black men were 
working class. And among working class men, who are by 
definition the recipients of low wages and who almost always 
have difficulty providing for families, achievement of 
manhood or masculine status is not determined solely on the 
basis of eeonomics. 

An ignorant person hearing an analysis of the black 
matriarchy theory might easily assume that the jobs black 
women were able to acquire which enabled them to be 
providers elevated their status above that of black men, but 
that was never the ease. In actuality many of the service jobs 
black women were employed to perform foreed them into 


109 



daily contact with racist whites who abused and humiliated 
them. They may have suffered much more intensely a feeling 
of being de-humanized and degraded than unemployed black 
men who stood on street comers all day long. Being 
employed at a low paying job does not neeessarily lead to a 
positive self-concept. It may very well be that unemployed 
black men were able to maintain a personal dignity that black 
women employed in service jobs were forced to surrender in 
their work arena. I can certainly remember lower class black 
men in our neighborhood commenting on the faet that some 
jobs were not worth doing beeause of the loss of one’s 
personal dignity, whereas black women were made to feel 
that when survival was the emcial issue, personal dignity 
should be saerificed. The black female who thought herself 
“too good” to do domestie work or other serviee jobs was 
often ridiculed for being uppity. Yet everyone sympathized 
when unemployed black men talked about their inability to 
accept “the man” bossing them. Sexist thinking made it 
acceptable for black men to refuse menial work even if 
they were unable to provide for family and children. Many 
blaek men who deserted family and children were not 
regarded eontemptuously even though sueh behavior on the 
part of blaek women would have been eondemned. 

The argument that blaek women were matriarchs was readily 
aecepted by black people even though it was an image ereated 
by white males. Of all the negative stereotypes and myths that 
have been used to charaeterize black womanhood, the 
matriarehy label has had the greatest impact on the 
conseiousness of many black people. The independent role 
black women were obliged to play both in the labor foree and 
in the family was automatically perceived as unladylike. 
Negative attitudes toward working women have always 


no 



existed in American society and black men were not unique in 
regarding black women workers with disapproval. Robert 
Smuts, in his general study of female workers (a study that is 
primarily concerned with white women), Women and Work 
in America, discussed the types of attitudes toward working 
women that were once the norm in American society: 

In the decades before and after the turn of the century, the 
employment of women was a major public issue. Like the 
judges of the Wisconsin Court, many Americans felt that it 
was akin to treason for a woman to want to work. Most of the 
arguments advanced to support this position were based on a 
common conception of the nature and role of women. In 
physique, temperament and mentality, the argument ran, 
women are exquisitely specialized for their functions as 
mothers and guardians of the home. To employ a woman in 
other ways would endanger not only her essential female 
qualities but also her sanity, her health, and even her life. This 
view of woman implied a complementary view of man. As 
the man was deficient in the feminine ideals of “tenderness, 
compassion... beauty and the harmonies of grace” essential to 
the creation of a true home; but abundantly endowed with the 
masculine qualities of “energy, desire, daring, and forcible 
possession” necessary in the world of business, government, 
and war... 

While this is a perfect example of racist scholarship, in that 
the women that Smuts is talking about entering the work force 
for 

the first time are white women, it does provide an accurate 
picture of the negative attitudes toward women in the labor 
force. 


Ill 



Just as white men pereeived the entry of white women into 
the labor foree as a threat to male positions and maseulinity, 
black men were socialized to regard the presence of black 
women in the labor force with similar suspicions. The 
matriarchy theory gave the black male a framework on which 
to base his condemnation of working black women. Many 
black men who did not feel at all personally de-masculinized 
absorbed sexist ideology and regarded wage-earning black 
women with contempt. These men claimed that the 
female-headed household was a direct result of the 
matriarchal tendencies of black women and argued that no 
“real” man could remain in a household where he was not the 
sole boss. Using this sexist logic, we can safely assume that it 
was never the black female having so much power in the 
home that alienated some black men, but that she had any 
power at all. Those male scholars who label a domestic 
worker who slaves away forty hours a week and earns enough 
money for food, rent, and other necessary expenses as 
financially independent do her a grave disservice. For most 
men in sexist society, being the boss is synonymous with 
having absolute power. In patriarchal homes men are likely to 
feel threatened even if women have a babysitting job that 
provides them extra grocery money. Black men were able to 
use the matriarchy myth as a psychological weapon to justify 
their demands that black women assume a more passive 
subservient role in the home. 

Those men who accepted the myth that black women were 
matriarchs did regard black females as a threat to their 
personal power. Such thinking is not at all peculiar to black 
men. Most men in a patriarchal society fear and resent women 
who do not assume traditional passive roles. By shifting the 
responsibility for the unemployment of black men onto black 


112 



women and away from themselves, white raeist oppressors 
were able to establish a bond of solidarity with blaek men 
based on mutual sexism. White men preyed upon sexist 
feelings impressed upon the blaek male psyehe from birth to 
soeialize blaek men so that they would regard not all women, 
but speeifieally blaek 

women as the enemies of their maseulinity. I have previously 
mentioned that historiographers who study blaek people’s 
history tend to minimize the oppression of blaek females and 
eoneentrate their attention on blaek men. Despite the faet that 
blaek women are vietims of sexist and raeist oppression, they 
are usually depleted as having reeeived more advantages than 
blaek men in Ameriean history, a faet that eannot be 
substantiated by historieal evidenee. The matriarehy myth 
suggested that onee again blaek women had been granted 
privileges denied blaek men. Yet even if white people had 
been eager to hire blaek men in serviee jobs to work as maids 
and washermen, sueh jobs would have been refused beeause 
they would have been regarded as an assault on male dignity. 
White soeiologists presented the matriarehy myth in sueh a 
way that it implied blaek women had “power” in the family 
and blaek men had none, and although these eonelusions were 
based solely on data eoneemed with eeonomie status, they 
fostered divisiveness between blaek men and women. 

Some blaek women have been as willing to aeeept the 
matriarehy theory as have blaek men. They were eager to 
identify themselves as matriarehs beeause it seemed to them 
that blaek women were finally reeeiving aeknowledgement of 
their eontribution to the blaek family. Young blaek women 
interested in Afriean history were attraeted to the theory that a 
matriarehy existed in Ameriea beeause they had learned that 
woman-ruled soeieties existed in our mother land, so they 


113 



claimed matriarchy as an African cultural retention. In 
general, many black women were proud to be labeled 
matriarchs because the term had many more positive 
implications than other labels used to characterize black 
womanhood. It was certainly more positive than mammy, 
bitch, or slut. If we were matriarchs, feelings of honor and 
pride would be in order, but as the social status of black 
women in the United States is far from being matriarchal, the 
motivation of white and black people who persistently label 
black women matriarchs must be questioned. Just as whites 
used the myth that all black women were sexually loose as a 
way to devalue black womanhood, they used the matriarchy 
myth to impress upon the consciousness of all 
Americans that black women were masculinized, castrating, 
ball-busters. 

Yet black women embraced the label matriarch because it 
allowed them to regard themselves as privileged. This merely 
indicates how effectively colonizers are able to distort the 
reality of the colonized so that they embrace concepts that 
actually do them more harm than good. One of the oppressive 
tactics white slavers used to prevent rebellions and slave 
uprisings was the brainwashing of slaves to believe that black 
people were really better taken care of as slaves than they 
would be as free people. Black slaves who accepted their 
master’s picture of freedom were afraid to break the bonds of 
slavery. A similar tactic has been used to brainwash black 
women. White colonizers encourage black women, who are 
economically oppressed and victimized by sexism and racism, 
to believe that they are matriarchs, that they exercise some 
social and political control over their lives. 


114 



Once black women are deluded and imagine that we have 
power we don’t really possess, the possibility that we might 
organize collectively to fight against sexist-racist oppression 
is reduced. I interviewed a black woman usually employed as 
a clerk who was living in near poverty, yet she continually 
emphasized the fact that black woman was matriarchal, 
powerful, in control of her life; in fact she was nearly having 
a nervous breakdown trying to make ends meet. Significantly, 
sociologists who label black women matriarchs never 
discussed woman’s social status within the matriarchal state, 
for if they had, black folks would have known immediately 
that it in no way resembled the lot of black women. Without a 
doubt, the false sense of power black women are encouraged 
to feel allows us to think that we are not in need of social 
movements like a women’s movement that would liberate us 
from sexist oppression. The sad irony is of course that black 
women are often most victimized by the very sexism we 
refuse to collectively identify as an oppressive force. 

The myth of the black matriarchy helped to further perpetuate 
the image of black women as masculinized, domineering, 
amazonic creatures. The black female was depicted by whites 
as an Amazon because they saw her ability to endure 
hardships no “lady” was supposedly capable of enduring as a 
sign that she possessed an animalistic sub-human strength. 
This belief was perfectly compatible with ideas about the 
nature of black womanhood that emerged during the 19th 
century. Like the matriarchy myth, the belief that black 
women were amazonic was largely based on myth and 
fantasy. Traditional Amazons were a collective group of 
women who joined together in an effort to promote female 
self-government. Unlike matriarchs, Amazons were interested 
in building societies in which the male figure would be 


115 



present in only small numbers. Diner writes of Amazonic 
women; 

Amazons deny the man, destroy the male progeny, eoncede 
no separate existence to the active principle, reabsorb it, and 
develop it in themselves in androgynous fashion female on 
the left, male on the right.... Homer developed the right 
feeling for the Amazons when he called them anitianeirai, 
which may be interpreted as “man hating” or as “mannish.” 

The great majority of women interviewed for this book were 
eager to acknowledge the feeling that the most important 
aspect of a woman’s life was her relationship with a man. 
Perusal of Essence magazine reveals that there is almost an 
obsessive concern among black women with male-female 
relationships. 

Most black women have not had the opportunity to indulge in 
the parasitic dependence upon the male that is expected of 
females and encouraged in patriarchal society. The institution 
of slavery forced black women to surrender any prior 
dependence on the male figure and obliged them to struggle 
for their individual survival. The social equality that 
characterized black sex role patterns in the work sphere under 
slavery did not create a situation that allowed black women to 
be passive. Despite sexist myths about the inherent weakness 
of women, black women have had to exert a certain 
independence of spirit because of their presence in the work 
force. Few black women have had a choice as to whether or 
not they will become workers. And participation of black 
women in the work force has not led to the formation of a 
feminist consciousness. Though many black women entered 
the labor force in service 


116 



areas, in agriculture, in industry, and in clerical work, most of 
them resented the fact that they were not being supported 
economically by men. In recent years, attitudes toward 
women entering the work force have radically changed. Many 
women either want to work or face the reality that they must 
be employed to make ends meet. The rise in middle class 
white women workers who enter the work force in ever 
increasing numbers indicates a change in attitudes toward 
working women. Until it was accepted that most women, 
black or white, would be in the capitalist work force, many 
black women bitterly resented the circumstances that forced 
them to work. It is interesting that white women were 
criticized and persecuted when they first entered the 
American work force in large numbers, but after the initial 
attacks ceased there was little protest. And there has been no 
discussion of them having become masculinized as a result of 
performing tasks traditionally done by men. 

When white women enter the work force today it is seen as a 
positive step, a move toward gaining independence, while 
more than ever before in our history black women who enter 
the work force are encouraged to feel that they are taking jobs 
from black men or de-masculinizing them. For fear of 
undermining the self-confidence of black men, many young 
college-educated black women repress their own career 
aspirations. While black women are often forced by 
circumstances to act in assertive ways, most black women I 
talked with as preparation for this book believed men were 
superior to women and that a degree of submission to male 
authority was a necessary part of woman’s role. The 
stereotypical image of the black woman as strong and 
powerful so dominates the consciousness of most Americans 
that even if a black woman is clearly conforming to sexist 


117 



notions of femininity and passivity she may be eharaeterized 
as tough, domineering, and strong. Mueh of what has been 
pereeived by whites as an Amazonie trait in blaek women has 
been merely stoieal aeeeptanee of situations we have been 
powerless to ehange. 

While the matriarehy myth and the myth of the blaek amazon 
have as their eore ingredient an image of woman as aetive, 
powerful being, the stereotypieal image of Aunt Jemima 
depieted the blaek woman as passive, longsuffering, and 
submissive. Historian Herbert Gutman argues that there is 
little evidenee to support the notion: 

...that the typieal house servant was an aged mammy who 
remained in her antebellum place out of loyalty to a white 
family or because whites had a special concern for such 
women. 

He suggests that the black female nanny in the white 
household was usually a young black woman with few if any 
attachments of her own. Gutman does not speculate about the 
origins of the black mammy figure, but she too was a creature 
of white imagination. It is not really important that there are 
black women who resemble the mammy stereotype, it is 
important that white people created an image of black 
womanhood which they could tolerate that in no way 
resembled the great majority of black women. If as Gutman 
argues the “nanny” in a typical antebellum white household 
was young and unattached, it is significant that white people 
have gone to such great lengths to create just the opposite 
image. It is not too difficult to imagine how whites came to 
create the black mammy figure. Considering white male lust 
for the bodies of black females, it is likely that white women 


118 



were not pleased with young black women working in their 
homes for fear that liaisons between them and their husbands 
might be formed, so they conjured up an image of the ideal 
black nanny. She was first and foremost asexual and 
consequently she had to be fat (preferably obese); she also 
had to give the impression of not being clean so she was the 
wearer of a greasy dirty headrag; her too tight shoes from 
which emerged her large feet were further confirmation of her 
bestial cow-like quality. Her greatest virtue was of course her 
love for white folk whom she willingly and passively served. 
The mammy image was portrayed with affection by whites 
because it epitomized the ultimate sexist-racist vision of ideal 
black womanhood—complete submission to the will of 
whites. In a sense whites created in the mammy figure a black 
woman who embodied solely those characteristics they as 
colonizers wished to exploit. They saw her as the embodiment 
of woman as passive nurturer, a mother figure who gave all 
without 

expectation of return, who not only acknowledged her 
inferiority to whites but who loved them. The mammy as 
portrayed by whites poses no threat to the existing white 
patriarchal social order for she totally submits to the white 
racist regime. Contemporary television shows continue to 
present black mammy figures as prototypes of acceptable 
black womanhood. 

The counterpart to the Aunt Jemima images are the Sapphire 
images. As Sapphires, black women were depicted as evil, 
treacherous, bitchy, stubborn, and hateful, in short all that the 
mammy figure was not. The Sapphire image had as its base 
one of the oldest negative stereotypes of woman—the image 
of the female as inherently evil. Christian mythology depicted 
woman as the source of sin and evil; racist-sexist mythology 


119 



simply designated blaek women the epitome of female evil 
and sinfulness. White men eould justify their de-humanization 
and sexual exploitation of blaek women by arguing that they 
possessed inherent evil demonie qualities. Blaek men eould 
elaim that they eould not get along with blaek women beeause 
they were so evil. And white women eould use the image of 
the evil sinful blaek woman to emphasize their own 
innoeenee and purity. Like the biblieal figure Eve, blaek 
women beeame the seapegoats for misogynist men and raeist 
women who needed to see some group of women as the 
embodiment of female evil. In an essay in The Blaek Woman, 
Perry and Bond deseribe Sapphire as she was and is depieted 
in Ameriean eulture: 

Movies and radio shows of the 1930’s and 1940’s invariably 
pedaled the Sapphire image of the blaek woman: she is 
depieted as iron-willed, effeetual, treaeherous toward and 
eontemptible of blaek men, the latter being portrayed as 
simpering, ineffeetual whipping boys. Certainly, most of us 
have eneountered domineering Blaek females (and white ones 
too). Many of them have been unlueky in life and love and 
seek a bitter haven from their disappointments in fanatieal 
self-suffieiency. 

The Sapphire image was popularized by the radio and 
television show Amos ‘n’ Andy, in whieh Sapphire is the 
nagging, shrewish wife of Kingfish. As the title indieates, the 
show focused on the black male characters. Sapphire’s 
shrewish personality was used primarily to create sympathy in 
viewers 

for the black male lot. The Sapphire identity has been 
projected onto any black woman who overtly expresses 
bitterness, anger, and rage about her lot. Consequently, many 


120 



black women repress these feelings for fear of being regarded 
as shrewish Sapphires. Or they embraee the Sapphire identity 
as a reaetion to the harsh treatment of blaek women in 
society. The “evilness” of a given black woman may merely 
be the facade she presents to a sexist-racist world that she 
realizes would only exploit her if she were to appear 
vulnerable. 

All the myths and stereotypes used to characterize black 
womanhood have their roots in negative anti-woman 
mythology. Yet they form the basis of most critical inquiry 
into the nature of black female experience. Many people have 
diffieulty appreeiating black women as we are because of 
eagerness to impose an identity upon us based on any number 
of negative stereotypes. Widespread efforts to continue 
devaluation of black womanhood make it extremely difficult 
and oftentimes impossible for the black female to develop a 
positive self-concept. For we are daily bombarded by 
negative images. Indeed, one strong oppressive force has been 
this negative stereotype and our aeceptanee of it as a viable 
role model upon which we can pattern our lives. 


121 



3 

The Imperialism of 
Patriarchy 


When the contemporary movement toward feminism began, 
there was little discussion of the impact of sexism on the 
social status of black women. The upper and middle class 
white women who were at the forefront of the movement 
made no effort to emphasize that patriarchal power, the power 
men use to dominate women, is not just the privilege of upper 
and middle class white men, but the privilege of all men in 
our society regardless of their class or race. White feminists 
so focused on the disparity between white male/white female 
economic status as an indication of the negative impact of 
sexism that they drew no attention to the fact that poor and 
lower-class men are as able to oppress and brutalize women 
as any other group of men in American society. The feminist 
tendency to make synonymous male possession of economic 
power with being an oppressor caused white men to be 
labeled “the” enemy. The labeling of the white male patriarch 
as “chauvinist pig” provided a convenient scapegoat for black 
male sexists. They could join with white and black women to 
protest against white male oppression and divert attention 
away from their sexism, their support of patriarchy, and their 
sexist exploitation of women. Black leaders, male and female, 
have been unwilling to acknowledge black male sexist 
oppression of black women because they do not want to 
acknowledge that racism is not the only oppressive force in 


122 


our lives. Nor do they wish to complicate efforts to resist 
racism by acknowledging that black men can be victimized 
by racism but at the same time act as sexist oppressors of 
black women. Consequently there is little acknowledgement 
of sexist oppression in black male/female relationships as a 
serious problem. Exaggerated emphasis on the impact of 
racism on black men has evoked an image of the black male 
as effete, emasculated, crippled. And so intensely does this 
image dominate American thinking that people are absolutely 
unwilling to admit that the damaging effects of racism on 
black men neither prevents them from being sexist oppressors 
nor excuses or justifies their sexist oppression of black 
women. 

Black male sexism existed long before American slavery. The 
sexist politics of white-ruled and colonized America merely 
reinforced in the minds of enslaved black people existing 
beliefs that men were the superiors of women. In an earlier 
discussion of the slave sub-culture I noted that the patriarchal 
social structure gave the enslaved male higher status than the 
enslaved female. Historiographers have not been willing to 
acknowledge either the higher status of the enslaved male in 
the black sub-culture or the fact that sex-based differentiation 
of work roles as assigned by white masters reflected a bias 
towards the male (i.e., black women required to perform 
“male” tasks but black men not required to perform “female” 
tasks—^women labor in fields but men do no childcare). In 
modem times, the emphasis on the sexist definition of the 
male role as that of protector and provider has caused scholars 
to argue that the most damaging impact of slavery on black 
people was that it did not allow black men to assume the 
traditional male role. But the inability of black men to assume 
the role of protector and provider did not change the reality 


123 



that men in patriarchal society automatically have higher 
status than women—they are not obliged to earn that status. 
Consequently, the enslaved black male, though obviously 
deprived of the 

social status that would enable him to protect and provide for 
himself and others, had a higher status than the black female 
slave based solely on his being male. This higher status did 
not always lead to preferential treatment but it was overtly 
acknowledged by sex-role differentiation. 

Sexist discrimination against all women in the labor force and 
in higher educational spheres throughout 19th century 
America meant that of those black people who aspired to 
leadership roles, either during slavery or at manumission, 
black men were the more likely candidates. As black men 
dominated leadership roles, they shaped the early black 
liberation movement so that it reflected a patriarchal bias. 
Courageous black women leaders like Sojourner Truth and 
Harriet Tubman did not represent the norm; they were 
exceptional individuals who dared to challenge the male 
vanguard to struggle for freedom. At public appearances, 
rallies, luncheons, and dinners black male leaders spoke in 
support of patriarchal rule. They did not talk directly about 
discriminating against women. Their sexism was shrouded in 
romantic visions of black men lifting black women to 
pedestals. Outspoken black nationalist leader Martin Delaney 
in his political treatise. The Condition, Elevation, Emigration, 
and Destiny of the Colored People of the United States, which 
was first published in 1852, advocated distinct sex role 
patterns for black women and men: 

Eet our young men and women prepare themselves for 
usefulness and business; that the men may enter into 


124 



merchandise, trading, and other things of importance; the 
young women may become teachers of various kinds, and 
otherwise fdl places of usefulness.... 

Our females must be qualified, because they are to be the 
mothers of our children. As mothers are the first nurse and 
instructors of children; from them children consequently, get 
their first impression, which being always the most lasting, 
should be the more correct. Raise the mothers above the level 
of degradation, and the offspring is elevated with them. In a 
word, instead of our young men, transcribing in their blank 
books recipes for Cooking, we desire to see them making the 
transfer of Invoices and Merchandise. 

Frederick Douglass saw the entire racial dilemma in America 
as 

a struggle between white men and black men. In 1865 he 
published an essay titled “What the Black Man Wants” which 
argued in favor of black men gaining the vote while women 
remained disenfranchised; 

Shall we at this moment justify the deprivation of the Negro 
of the right to vote, because some one else is deprived of that 
privilege? I hold that women, as well as men, have the right to 
vote, and my heart and my voice go with the movement to 
extend suffrage to women; but the question rests on another 
basis than that on which our rights rest. We may be asked, I 
say, why we want it. I will tell you why we want it. We want 
it because it is our right, first of all. No class of men can, 
without insulting their own nature, be content with any 
deprivation of their rights. 


125 



It is evident in this statement that to Douglass the “negro” 
was synonymous with the blaek male. And though he elaims 
in his essay to support woman suffrage, he elearly believed it 
was more appropriate and fitting that men be given the right 
to vote. By emphasizing that the right to vote was more 
important to men than women, Douglass and other blaek male 
aetivists allied themselves with white male patriarehs on the 
basis of shared sexism. 

In their private lives, blaek male aetivists and politieal leaders 
demanded that their wives assume subordinate roles. Blaek 
woman feminist Mary Chureh Terrell reeorded in her diary 
that her aetivist lawyer husband desired her to play no role in 
politieal affairs. She eomplained that he treated her as if she 
were a fragile glass objeet in need of eonstant proteetion. 
Terrell’s husband used his patriarehal status to sabotage her 
politieal work. His fear was that her femininity would be 
“tarnished” by too many eneounters with the world outside 
the home. The marriage of Booker T. Washington and his 
third wife, Margaret Murray, was fraught with similar 
eonfliet. Margaret wanted to assume a more aetive role in the 
blaek politieal movement but was eneouraged to eonfine 
herself to the domestie sphere. While Ida B. Wells’ husband 
supported her politieal work, she did not abdieate 
responsibility for ehild eare and on various oeeasions 
appeared at speaking engagements with her small ehildren. In 
1894 Calvin Chase wrote an editorial in the 
Bee entitled “Our Women” in whieh he urged blaek men to 
assume the role of proteetor of blaek womanhood. Chase 
admonished, “Let us do our duty in defending our women; let 
us set up a system of reformation not only of our women but 
everything that pertains to the raee’s advaneement.” 
Nineteenth eentury blaek male leaders like James Forten, 


126 



Charles Remond, Martin Delaney, and Frederick Douglass 
supported the efforts of women to gain political rights but 
they did not support social equality between the sexes. They 
were in fact adamant in their support of patriarchal rule. Like 
white male liberals in the 19th century, black male leaders 
were not against granting women access to political rights as 
long as men remained the acknowledged superior authorities. 
In a discussion of southern etiquette as regards attitudes 
toward women, one white writer noted, “Southern racists and 
black activists looked at women in similar terms. Both viewed 
the female as a second sex with distinctly limited privileges.” 

Among the 19th century black masses, folks were 
wholeheartedly committed to establishing and maintaining a 
patriarchal social order in their segregated culture. Black 
women wanted to assume the “feminine” role of homemaker 
supported, protected, and honored by a loving husband. There 
was one problem—few jobs available to black men. Racist 
whites refused black men employment, while black women 
were able to find domestic service jobs. White and black 
people have interpreted white employment of black women in 
domestic service jobs while refusing to provide jobs for black 
men as an indication that they favored black women over 
black men. Such thinking ignores the obvious fact that 
domestic service jobs (maids, housekeepers, washerwomen) 
were not regarded as either “real” work or meaningful labor. 
White people did not perceive black women engaged in 
service jobs as performing significant work that deserved 
adequate economic reward. They saw domestic service jobs 
performed by black women as being merely an extension of 
the “natural” female role and considered such jobs valueless. 
While white men could feel threatened by competition from 
black males for sound wage-earning jobs and use racism to 


127 



exclude black men, white women were eager to surrender 
household chores to black female servants. Since 
household chores were seen as degrading work, it is unlikely 
that white people were showing favoritism to black women 
by allowing them these jobs. It is more likely that they 
thought black women, whom they believed were without 
dignity and self-respect, would feel no shame in doing menial 
labor. 

Although many black women worked outside the home, they 
remained staunch supporters of patriarchy. They regarded the 
black male who could not free them from the labor force with 
hostility, anger, and contempt. Even in some homes where 
black men worked but did not earn enough money to be the 
sole provider, black wives were bitter about having to enter 
the work force. Much of the tension in black marriages and 
other male-female relationships was caused by black females’ 
pressuring men to assume the breadwinner, 
head-of-the-household role. Often black men were not as 
upwardly mobile as black women wanted them to be. As 
women in capitalist America are the major consumers, much 
of the pressure on all men to earn more money is imposed 
upon them by women. And black women have been no 
exception. Unlike many white men who responded to the 
materialistic demands of wives by becoming devoted 
disciples of the cult of work, many black men reacted with 
hostility to such demands. Other black men worked two or 
three jobs to provide for the materialistic demands of wife and 
children. 

In 1970, L.J. Axelson published an essay, “The Working 
Wife: Difference in Perception Among Negro and White 
Males,” which introduced data that showed black men were 


128 



much more supportive and accepting of their wives being in 
the work force than white men. Often it has been black 
women who have been the most angered and enraged about 
black men not assuming the provider role. The 1968 issue of 
the Liberator published an essay by black woman writer Gail 
Stokes titled “Black Woman to Black Man.” In the essay she 
expressed hostility and eontempt for those black men who 
were reluctant to assume the provider role: 

Of course you will say, “How can I love you and want to be 
with you when I come home and you’re looking like a slob? 
Why, white women never open the door for their husbands 
the way you blaek bitehes do.” 

I should guess not, you ignorant man. Why should they be in 
sueh a state when they’ve got maids like me to do everything 
for them? There is no screaming at the kids for her, no 
standing over the hot stove; everything is done for her, and 
whether her man loves her or not, he provides... provides... 
do you hear that, nigger? PROVIDES! 

The rage of working blaek women, who have equated 
manhood with the ability of men to be sole economic 
providers in the family, and who eonsequently feel cheated 
and betrayed by blaek men who refuse to assume these roles, 
is but another indication of the extent of their aceeptanee and 
support of patriarehy. They saw the blaek male who did not 
eagerly assume the breadwinner role as selfish, lazy, and 
irresponsible, or in white male soeiological terms, 
“emasculated.” Their perception of the black male as weak or 
effeminate is not an indication that they have repudiated male 
dominanee; it is an acknowledgement on their part that they 
wholeheartedly embrace patriarehy and feel contemptuous 


129 



toward black men who have no desire to assume the 
breadwinner role. 

The idea that black men felt emasculated because black 
women worked outside the home is based on the assumption 
that men find their identity through work and are personally 
fulfilled by aeting as breadwinners. Such an assumption does 
not reveal any eonsideration of the fact that the vast majority 
of jobs men perform are time-consuming, uninteresting, and 
energy-draining—and are not the least bit personally 
fulfilling. Myron Brenton, author of The A merican Male—A 
Penetrating Look at the Maseulinity Crisis, argues that men 
do not feel that work allows them to assert “masculine 
power.” While he admits that most Ameriean men are 
socialized by sexism to regard work as their role, he argues 
that the men who aecept the idea that work is an expression of 
their maseuline power and should be the most important 
aspect of their life experience are usually disappointed. He 
comments, “The Ameriean male looks to his breadwinner role 
to confirm his manliness, but work itself is fraught with 
de-humanizing—i.e., unmanning— influence.” Black men in 
Ameriea have rarely romantieized labor, largely beeause they 
have for the most part performed less desirable tasks. They 
knew that performing jobs society 

deemed menial with bosses and supervisors harassing and 
persecuting them was not fulfilling. They also knew that the 
monetary rewards for their labor rarely compensated for the 
indignities they were forced to endure. Ambitious black men 
who absorbed the values of middle class white patriarchs 
have been most eager to aceept the emasculation theory, as 
they are the men who feel most erippled by the raeial 
hierarehy in Ameriean soeiety that has traditionally denied 
black men unlimited access to power. It is common to hear 


130 



famous black male celebrities or other financially successful 
black men lament the “powerlessness of the black male” or 
stress that he is unable to be a “real” man in American 
society. They choose to ignore the reality that their own 
successes are an indication that black men are not totally 
trapped, crippled, or emasculated. In actuality, what they are 
really saying is that they have embraced patriarchy and with it 
male competitiveness, and that as long as white men dominate 
capitalist power structures in American society, black men 
will feel emasculated. 

Many black men who express the greatest hostility toward the 
white male power structure are often eager to gain access to 
that power. Their expressions of rage and anger are less a 
critique of the white male patriarchal social order and more a 
reaction against the fact that they have not been allowed full 
participation in the power game. In the past, these black men 
have been most supportive of male subjugation of women. 
They hoped to gain public recognition of their “manhood” by 
demonstrating that they were the dominant figure in the black 
family. 

Just as 19th century black male leaders felt that it was 
important that all black men show themselves willing to be 
protectors and providers of their women as a sign to the white 
race that they would tolerate no more denial of their 
masculine privilege, 20th century black male leaders used this 
same tactic. Marcus Garvey, Elijah Muhammed, Malcolm X, 
Martin Luther King, Stokely Carmichael, Amiri Baraka and 
other black male leaders have righteously supported 
patriarchy. They have all argued that it is absolutely necessary 
for black men to relegate black women to a subordinate 
position both in the political 


131 



sphere and in home life. Amiri Baraka published an essay in 
the July 1970 issue of Blaek World that publicly announced 
his commitment to establishing a black patriarchy. Yet he did 
not use terms like patriarchy or male rule; instead he 
discussed the formation of a black male-dominated household 
with its inherent anti-woman stance as if it were a positive 
reaction against white racist values. His romantic rhetoric was 
typical of the language black male leaders used to mask the 
negative implication of their sexist message. Addressing 
himself to all black people, Baraka asserts: 

We talk about the black woman and the black man like we 
were separate because we have been separated, our hands 
reach out for each other, for the closeness, the completeness 
we are for each other, the expansion of consciousness that we 
provide for each other. We were separated by the deed and 
process of slavery. We internalized the process, permitting it 
to create an alien geography in our skulls, a wandering spirit 
that had us missing each other, and never never understanding 
just what it was. After we were gone from each other. My 
hand might rest on yours, and still you would be gone. And I, 
of course, not there, out wandering, among the rogues and 
whores of the universe. 

And so this separation is the cause of our need for self 
consciousness, and eventual healing. But we must erase the 
separateness by providing ourselves with healthy African 
identities. By embracing a value system that knows of no 
separation but only of the divine complement the black 
woman is for her man. For instance we do not believe in the 
“equality” of men and women. We cannot understand what 
the devils and the devilishly influenced mean when they say 
equality for women. We could never be equals... nature has 


132 



not provided thus. The brother says, “Let a woman be a 
woman... and let a man be a ma-an...” 

Although Baraka presents this “new” blaek nation he 
envisions as a world that will have distinetly different values 
from those of the white world he is rejeeting, the soeial 
strueture he eoneeived was based on the same patriarehal 
foundation as that of white Ameriean soeiety. His statements 
about woman’s role were not unlike those white men were 
expressing at this same period in Ameriean history. White 
males interviewed for the book The Ameriean Male expressed 
eoneern that the growing presenee of white women in the 
work foree was threatening their maseuline status, and 
expressed sentimental feelings of longing for the old days 
when sex-role patterns were more sharply delineated. Like 
Baraka, they eomment: 

Those were the days, all right. A man was a man, and a 
woman was a woman, and eaeh of them knew what that 
meant. Father was the head of the family in the real sense of 
the term. Mother respeeted him for it and reeeived all the 
gratifieations she needed or wanted at home, doing her 
well-defined jobs.... Man was strong, woman was 
feminine—and there was little loose talk about phony 
equality. 

It is no mere eoineidenee that at the same time white men 
were expressing doubts and anxieties about their masculine 
role, black men chose to publicly proclaim that they had 
subjugated black women. Finally, the black man who had 
seen himself as the loser in the all male competitive struggle 
with white men for status and power could show a trump 
card—he was the “real” man because he could control “his” 


133 



woman. Baraka and other black men could label white men 
effeminate and non-masculine. In Home, Baraka includes an 
essay called “american sexual reference: black man” which 
begins with the homophobic statement: 

Most American white men are trained to be fags. For this 
reason it is no wonder their faces are weak and blank, left 
without the hurt that really makes—anytime. That red flush, 
those silk blue faggot eyes.... Can you, for a second, imagine 
the average middle-class white man able to do somebody 
harm? Without the technology that at this moment still has 
him rule the world? Do you understand the softness of the 
white man, the weakness, and again the estrangement from 
reality. 

Ironically, the “power” of black men that Baraka and others 
celebrated was the stereotypical, racist image of the black 
man as primitive, strong, and virile. Although these same 
images of black men had been evoked by racist whites to 
support the argument that all black men were rapists, they 
were now romanticized as positive characteristics. The 
American public was impressed by Baraka and others like 
him who heralded the 

emergence of black manhood. They reacted to groups like the 
Black Muslims with their emphasis on strong black manhood 
with fear, but also with awe and respect. 

From their writings and speeches, it is clear that most black 
political activists of the 60s saw the black liberation 
movement as a move to gain recognition and support for an 
emerging black patriarchy. When critics of the black power 
movement argued that a contradiction of values emerged from 
black men who espoused black power while at the same time 


134 



choosing white female eompanions, they were informed that 
“real” men demonstrated their power by dating whomever 
they pleased. When Baraka was asked if a militant blaek man 
eould have a white female eompanion he responded: 

Jim Brown put it pretty straight and this is really quite true. 
He says that there are blaek men and white men, then there 
are women. So you ean indeed be going through a blaek 
militant thing and have yourself a woman. The faet that she 
happens to be blaek or white is no longer impressive to 
anybody, but a man who gets himself a woman is what’s 
impressive. The battle is really between white men and blaek 
men whether we like to admit it that is the battlefield at this 
time. 

Blaek men were announeing via the Blaek Power movement 
that they were determined to gain aeeess to power even if it 
entailed breaking from mainstream Ameriean soeiety and 
setting up a new blaek sub-eulture. White male patriarchs 
were alarmed by the assertions of militant blaek men whom 
they knew had every justifiable reason to be angry, hostile, 
revengeful, and they reaeted with violent resistanee. Despite 
the faet that they were able to resist and defeat blaek 
militants, white men were impressed by the sight of blaek 
men wearing the badge of their newly affirmed manhood. The 
Blaek Power movement had a great impaet on the psyehes of 
white Amerieans. Joel Kovel argues in White Raeism: A 
Psyehohistory that the blaek power movement eompletely 
ehanged white pereeptions of blaek people. He eontends: 

Through open defianee, eneouraged by leaders sueh as 
Maleolm X and his radieal suceessors, blaeks have eleansed 
the symbol of blaekness, stripped it of its aeeumulated false 


135 



humility, and have in effect proceeded toward the 
regeneration of their own symbolic matrix based upon a 
positive concept of blackness. That this return to dignity has 
been possible at all, is a testimonial to the strength of 
humanity to resist oppression, and a great sign of hope for 
black and white alike. That it should have to become real 
through anger and destruction may seem deplorable, but it is 
unhappily necessary under the crushing terms of the Western 
symbolic matrix that would not, could not, itself grant 
humanity to those who had once been property. Here, in this 
heroic act, is a real break in the endlessly destructive dialectic 
of our matrix. 

Many white men responded favorably to the demands of 
black power advocates with their emphasis on restoring black 
men their lost masculinity precisely because their sexism 
enabled them to identify sympathetically with this cause. The 
patriarchal privileges black men demanded in the name of 
black power were precisely the longings sexist patriarchal 
white men could empathize with. While white men and 
women could not identify and sympathize with the black race 
that they had exploited for economic gain demanding 
reparations, they could easily relate to the desire of black men 
to assert their “manhood.” As Americans, they had not been 
taught to really believe that social equality was an inherent 
right all people possess, but they had been socialized to 
believe that it is the nature of males to desire and have access 
to power and privilege. In Michele Wallace’s controversial 
book. Black Macho and the Myth of the Super Woman, she 
dismisses the black power movement as ineffectual and 
suggests that black men were primarily interested in gaining 
access to the bodies of white women. She fails to understand 
that the 60s black movement did not merely eradicate many 


136 



of the barriers that prevented inter-racial dating; it led to 
numerous social and economic gains for black people. 
However, the meaningful gains of the black power movement 
do not either justify or lessen the negative impact of 
anti-woman attitudes that emerged in much black power 
rhetoric. 

While the 60s black power movement was a reaction against 
racism, it was also a movement that allowed black men to 
overtly announce their support of patriarchy. Militant black 
men were publicly attacking the white male patriarchs for 
their racism but they were also establishing a bond of 
solidarity with them based on their shared acceptance of and 
commitment to patriarchy. The strongest bonding element 
between militant black men and white men was their shared 
sexism—they both believed in the inherent inferiority of 
woman and supported male dominance. Another bonding 
element was the black male’s acknowledgement that he, like 
the white male, accepted violence as the primary way to 
assert power. White men reacted to black male violence with 
the excitement and glee men have traditionally expressed 
when going to war. Although they attacked black militants, 
they respected them for their show of force. Since the 60s 
black power movement, white men have more readily 
accepted black men on police forces and in more leadership 
positions in the armed forces. It has been traditionally 
acceptable for men to put aside their racist feelings in those 
spheres where men bond on the basis of their sexuality. 
Despite overt racism in the sports arena, it is there that black 
men were first able to gain a degree of positive recognition of 
their masculine prowess. Racism has always been a divisive 
force separating black men and white men, and sexism has 
been a force that unites the two groups. 


137 



Men of all races in America bond on the basis of their 
common belief that a patriarchal social order is the only 
viable foundation for society. Their patriarchal stance is not 
simply an acceptance of a social etiquette based on 
discrimination against women; it is a serious political 
commitment to maintaining political regimes throughout the 
United States and the world that are male-dominated. John 
Stoltenberg discusses the political structure of patriarchy in 
his essay “Toward Gender Justice” published in a book of 
readings, For Men Against Sexism. In his essay he describes 
characteristic features of patriarchy: 

Under patriarchy, men are the arbiters of identity for both 
males and females, because the cultural norm of human 
identity is, by definition, male identity—masculinity. And, 
under patriarchy, the cultural norm of male identity consists 
in power, prestige, privilege, and prerogative as over and 
against the gender class women. That’s what masculinity is. It 
isn’t something else. 

Attempts have been made to defend this norm of masculinity 
as having a natural basis in male sexual biology. It has been 
said for example, that male power in the culture is a natural 
expression of a biological tendency in human males toward 
sexual aggression. But I believe that what is true is the 
reverse. 1 believe that masculinist genital functioning is an 
expression of male power in the culture. I believe that male 
sexual aggression is entirely learned behavior, taught by a 
culture which men entirely control. I believe, as I will 
explain, that there is a social process by which patriarchy 
confers power, prestige, privilege, and prerogative on people 
who are born with cocks, and that there is a sexual program 


138 



promoted by the patriarehy (not Mother Nature) for how 
those coeks are supposed to funetion. 

Stoltenberg also emphasizes that patriarchy is maintained by 
male bonding on the basis of shared sexism: 

The social process whereby people born with cocks attain and 
maintain masculinity takes place in male bonding. Male 
bonding is institutionalized learned behavior whereby men 
recognize and reinforce one another’s bona fide membership 
in the male gender class and whereby men remind one 
another that they were not born women. Male bonding is 
political and pervasive. It occurs whenever two males meet. It 
is not restricted to all-male-groupings. It is the form and 
content of each and every encounter between two males. Boys 
learn very early that they had better be able to bond. What 
they learn in order to bond is an elaborate behavioral code of 
gestures, speech, habits and attitudes, which effectively 
exclude women from the society of men. Male bonding is 
how men learn from each other that they are entitled under 
patriarchy to power in the culture. Male bonding is how men 
get that power, and male bonding is how it is kept. Therefore, 
men enforce a taboo against unbonding—a taboo which is 
fundamental to patriarchal society. 

Racism has not allowed total bonding between white and 
black men on the basis of shared sexism, but such bonding 
does occur. 

The black male quest for recognition of his “manhood” in 
American society is rooted in his internalization of the myth 
that simply by having been born male, he has an inherent 
right to power and privilege. When racism prevented black 


139 



people from attaining soeial equality with whites, blaek men 
responded 

as if they were the sole representatives of the black race and 
therefore the sole victims of racist oppression. They saw 
themselves as the people who were being denied their 
freedom, and not black women. In all his protest fiction, black 
novelist Richard Wright emphasized the de-humanizing 
effects of racism on black men as if black women were in no 
way affected. In his short story “Long Black Song” the hero 
Silas who has just killed a white man cries out in his rage: 

The white folks ain never gimme a chance! They ain never 
give no black man a chance! There ain nothing in yo whole 
life yuh kin keep from cm! They take yo Ian! They take yo 
freedom! They take yo women! N then they take yo life! 

Wright relegates women to the position of property—they 
become for him merely an extension of the male ego. His 
attitude is typical of patriarchal male thinking about women. 

Black men are able to dismiss the sufferings of black women 
as unimportant because sexist socialization teaches them to 
see women as objects with no human value or worth. This 
anti-woman attitude is endemic to patriarchy. In Leonard 
Schein’s essay “All Men Are Misogynists,” he argues that 
patriarchy encourages men to hate women: 

Patriarchy’s foundation is the oppression of women. The 
cement of this foundation is the socialization of men to hate 
women. 

Looking at our development as males, it is easy to see how 
misogyny originates. As young children, our first attraction is 


140 



to our mother, a woman. As we grow older, we learn to 
transfer our love for our mother to an identification with our 
father. 

The patriarchal nuclear family makes all its members 
dependent upon the male (father-husband). It is in this 
oppressive atmosphere that we grow up, and are extremely 
sensitive to this hierarchy of power even as children. We 
realize, more than adults know, that our father (and society in 
his image, from policeman to doctor to president) is powerful, 
and that our mother is powerless. She has to scheme and 
manipulate through sympathy to get what she wants. 

Racism does not prevent black men from absorbing the same 
sexist socialization white men are inundated with. At very 
young ages, black male children learn that they have a 
privileged status in the world based on their having been born 
male; they learn that this status is superior to that of women. 
As a consequence of their early sexist socialization, they 
mature accepting the same sexist sentiments their white 
counterparts accept. When women do not affirm their 
masculine status by assuming a subordinate role, they express 
the contempt and hostility they have been taught to feel 
toward non-submissive women. 

Black men have been sexist throughout their history in 
America, but in contemporary times that sexism has taken the 
form of outright misogyny—^undisguised woman-hating. 
Cultural changes in attitudes toward female sexuality have 
affected male attitudes toward women. As long as women 
were divided into two groups, virgin women who were the 
“good” girls and sexually permissive women who were the 
“bad” girls, men were able to maintain some semblance of 


141 



caring for women. Now that the pill and other contraeeptive 
deviees give men unlimited aeeess to the bodies of women, 
they have ceased to feel that it is at all neeessary to show 
women any consideration or respect. They can now see all 
women as “bad,” as “whores,” and openly reveal their 
contempt and hatred. As a group, white men expose their 
hatred by inereased exploitation of women as sex objects to 
sell products and by their wholehearted support of 
pornography and rape. Black men expose their hatred by 
inereased domestie brutality (white men also) and their 
vehement verbal denouncement of black women as 
matriarehs, castraters, bitehes, ete. That black men should 
begin to see the black woman as their enemy was perfectly 
logical given the strueture of patriarehy. Sehien writes of 
male hatred of women: 

... Psyehologically, we objectify the people we hate and 
consider them our inferiors... 

A second situation which feeds on, deepens, and solidifies our 
hatred of women develops a little later in time. We begin to 
realize our privileged position in society as males. The 
Orthodox Jew prays to God every morning thanking 
“Him” that he was not bom a woman. Subeonsciously we 
intuit that our privilege ean only be maintained if women are 
kept “in their place.” So we live in constant fear, as the threat 
to our power is everywhere (even, and especially, in our 
bedroom). This fear of the ehallenge to our power explains 
our paranoid hatred toward the “Uppity Woman.” 

Blaek women have always been regarded as “too uppity.” 
White men deeided this during slavery. When Moynihan first 
published his report on the black family in 1965 perpetuating 


142 



the emasculation theory, black men responded initially by 
exposing the weaknesses and flaws in his argument. They 
first argued that his assertion that they were emasculated was 
ridiculous and untrue but it was not long before they began to 
make the same complaint. Their endorsement of the idea that 
black women were castraters of men allowed them to bring 
out of the closet misogynist attitudes. While they embraced 
on one hand the matriarchy myth and used it to urge black 
women to be more submissive, on the other hand they 
communicated the message that their manhood was not 
threatened by black women because they could always use 
brute force and physical prowess to subjugate them. 

It has always been acknowledged in lower class black 
communities that the ability to act as breadwinners was not 
the standard black men used to measure their masculine 
status. As one black man stated; 

In white society, respect is to a large degree institutionalized. 
You must respect a man because he is a judge or a professor 
or a corporate executive. In the ghetto without the 
institutionalization of respect, a man must earn respect by his 
own personal qualities, including the ability to defend himself 
physically. 

It is true that white men have institutionalized respect, but 
their success as men in power is measured by their ability to 
use technological force to do violence to others, or their 
ability to exploit others for capitalist ends. So in that sense, 
their way of acquiring respect for their masculine status is not 
that different from that of black men. While white men 
demonstrate their “masculine power” by organizing and 


143 



implementing the slaughter of Japanese people or Vietnamese 
people, blaek men kill 

one another, or blaek women. One of the leading eauses of 
death among young blaek men is blaek-on-blaek homieide. 
Blaek psyehiatrist Alvin Pouissant argues that these blaek 
men are “vietims of their own self-hatred.” While inseeure 
feelings about their selfhood may motivate blaek men to 
eommit violent aets, in a eulture that eondones violenee in 
men as a positive expression of maseulinity, the ability to use 
foree against another person—i.e., oppress them—may be 
less an expression of self-hatred than a rewarding, fulfilling 
aet. 

In many blaek eommunities, young men eoming of age feel 
that they must show their male peers that they are fearless— 
that they are not afraid of violent aets. Carrying a gun and 
being prepared to use it are the ways they publiely assert their 
“maseuline” strength. In an imperialist raeist patriarehal 
soeiety that supports and eondones oppression, it is not 
surprising that men and women judge their worth, their 
personal power, by their ability to oppress others. Reeently, a 
white male journalist for a leading California newspaper 
reported with shoek and outrage that blaek youths in 
Cleveland eheered when the slain body of an FBI agent who 
was murdered by a young blaek male was brought from a 
tenement building. Yet in a eulture where the cult of violence 
dominates media (television, films, comic books), it is 
perfectly understandable that young men and women glorify 
violence. And in the case of young black males who learn 
from this same media that they are the automatic targets for 
white male aggression, it is not surprising that they should 
feel satisfaction when they see a symbol of white law 
enforcement murdered by a peer. After all, sexist socialization 


144 



has been eneouraging them all their lives to feel they are 
“unmanned” if they eannot eommit violent aets. 

It is often forgotten that the very same Moynihan report that 
promoted the idea that black men had been “unmanned” by 
black women urged black men to enter military service. 
Moynihan called war an “utterly masculine world,” and it was 
in this world of killing that he imagined black men would 
develop personal confidence and pride. Like other white male 
patriarchs he endorsed violence as a positive expression of 
male strength. He argued: 

Given the strains of the disorganized and matrifocal family 
life in which so many Negro youths come of age, the armed 
forces are a dramatic and desperately needed change: a world 
away from woman, a world run by strong men of 
unquestioned authority. 

Sexism fosters, condones, and supports male violence against 
women, as well as encouraging violence between males. In 
patriarchal society, men are encouraged to channel frustrated 
aggression in the direction of those without power—women 
and children. And white men and black men alike abuse 
women. While the interests of this book motivate me to be 
more concerned with black male misogyny, I do not intend to 
imply that black males epitomize sexist oppression in our 
society. There has always been greater emphasis on the 
violent acts of black men in American society, as it diverts 
attention away from white male violence. Male violence 
against women has increased in America in the last twenty 
years. Anti-feminists argue that changing sex role patterns 
have threatened males so that they are demonstrating their 
anger by domestic brutality. As supporters of male dominance 


145 



they assert that violent acts against women will continue until 
society returns to the good old-fashioned days of sharply 
delineated sex roles. 

While feminist supporters like to think that feminism has 
been the motivating force behind changes in woman’s role, in 
actuality changes in the American capitalist economy have 
had the greatest impact on the status of women. More women 
than ever before are in America’s work force not because of 
feminism but because families can no longer rely on the 
income of the father. Feminism has been used as a 
psychological tool to make women think that work they might 
otherwise see as boring, tedious, and time consuming is 
liberating. For whether feminism exists or not, women must 
work. Overt misogynist attacks on women occured long 
before the feminist movement, and most women who bear the 
brunt of male aggression and brutality today are not feminists. 
Much of the violence against women in this culture is 
promoted by the capitalist patriarchy that encourages men to 
see themselves as privileged while daily stripping them of 
their humanity in de-humanizing work, and as a consequence 
men use violence against women to restore 
their lost sense of power and masculinity. Media 
brainwashing encourages men to use violence as a way to 
subjugate women. In effect, modern patriarchy restructured to 
meet the needs of advanced capitalism eradicated earlier 
romanticized versions of the male hero role as a strong 
knight, protecting and providing for the damsel in distress, 
and replaced it by worship of the rapist, the macho man, the 
brute who uses force to get his demands met. 

In the 60s, black men disassociated themselves from 
chivalrous codes of manhood that at one time taught males to 


146 



deplore the use of violence against women, and idolized those 
men who exploited and brutalized women. Amiri Baraka 
dramatized his acceptance of violence as a way to subjugate 
women in his play Madheart. In a scene where a black woman 
is urging the black man to leave white women alone and 
come to her, the black male “hero” of the play demonstrates 
his power to use force to subdue her: 

BLACK MAN: I’ll get you back. If I need to. 

WOMAN (laughs): You need to, baby... just look around 
you. You better get me back, if you know what’s good for 
you... you better. 

BLACK MAN (looking around at her squarely, he advances): 
I better?... (a soft laugh) Yes. Now is where we always are... 
that now... (he wheels and suddenly slaps her crosswise, back 
and forth across the face.) 

WOMAN: Wha??? What... oh love... please... don’t hit me. 
(he hits her, slaps her again.) 

BLACK MAN: I want you woman, as a woman. Go down. 
(He slaps her again) Go down, submit, submit... to love... 
and to man, now forever. 

WOMAN (weeping, turning her head from side to side): 
Please don’t hit me... please... (She bends.) The years are so 
long, without you, man. I’ve waited... waited for you... 

BLACK MAN: And I’ve waited. 


147 



WOMAN; I’ve seen you humbled, black man, seen you crawl 
for dogs and devils. 

BLACK MAN; And I’ve seen you raped by savages and 
beasts, and bear bleach-shit children of apes. 

WOMAN; You permitted it... you could... do nothing. 

BLACK MAN; But now I can (he slaps her... drags her to 
him, kissing her deeply on the lips.) That shit is ended, 
woman, you with me, and the world is mine. 

Baraka did not celebrate this male violence against women in 
isolation. His plays were performed before audiences of 
women and men who were not shocked, disgusted, and 
outraged by what they saw. While Baraka in the 60s used 
drama to act out scenes of male oppression of women, in the 
70s a black woman was actually murdered on stage by a black 
male playwright. Black woman poet Audre Lorde refers to 
this murder in a short essay, “The Great American Disease” 
in which she comments on black male woman-hating. She 
recalls the case of Pat Cowan; 

She was a young black actress in Detroit, 22 years old and a 
mother. She answered an ad last spring for a black actress to 
audition in a play called “Hammer.” As she acted out an 
argument scene, watched by the playwright’s brother and her 
son, the black male playwright picked up a sledgehammer and 
bludgeoned her to death from behind. 

Most men in patriarchal society, though fanatically committed 
to male dominance, like to think that they will not use 
brutality to oppress women. Yet at very young ages male 


148 



children are socialized to regard females as their enemy and 
as a threat to their masculine status and power—a threat, 
however, they can conquer through violence. As they grow 
older they learn that aggression toward women lessens their 
anxiety and fear that their masculine power will be usurped. 
In his essay on misogyny, Schien concludes: 

We must understand that our anger (and hatred) is something 
that comes from within us. It is not womans fault. It is the 
attitude that patriarehal soeiety has eneouraged us to feel 
toward all women. When finally eonfronted with the reality of 
feminism, which threatens our power and privileges, our 
defenses eannot hide our true anger and we turn to ineredible 
violence. 

We have to aceept that this anger belongs to us and stems 
from our hatred of women. I know men say that they really do 
not hate women, they have just treated them unfairly because 
of soeialization (“Those other men are rapists, not me.”). This 
can be a cop-out and untruth. All men do hate women, and 
until we take responsibility for our personal hatred, we will 
not be able to seriously explore our emotionality nor treat 
women as equal human beings. 

Blaek women are one of the most devalued female groups in 
Ameriean society, and thus they have been the recipients of a 
male abuse and cruelty that has known no bounds or limits. 
Since the black woman has been stereotyped by both white 
and black men as the “bad” woman, she has not been able to 
ally herself with men from either group to get protection from 
the other. Neither group feels that she deserves proteetion. A 
sociologieal study of low income black male-female 
relationships showed that most young black men see their 


149 



female companions solely as objects to be exploited. Most 
boys in the study referred to black women as “that bitch” or 
“that whore.” Their perception of the black female as a 
degraded sexual object is similar to white male perceptions of 
the black female. Often in black communities the male who 
overtly reveals his hatred and contempt of women is admired. 
The contemporary glorification of male violence against 
women has caused the pimp, once a despised figure in 
communities, to be elevated to the status of hero. The pimp’s 
misogynist treatment of women was romanticized in movies 
like Sweet Sweetback or Cool Worlds and in books like 
Iceberg Slim that glorified his exploits. Much of Malcolm X’s 
very fine autobiography is devoted to a re-telling of his days 
as a pimp. He tells readers that he felt comfortable in the role 
of pimp because he saw women as the enemies of masculinity 
who must be triumphed over through exploitation. While he 
repudiated the role of pimp after he became a Muslim, it is 
presented simply as a distorted expression of his quest for 
“manhood.” 

In 1972 Christina and Richard Milner published a book 
entitled Black Players in which they romanticize and glorify 
the lives of pimps. One section of the book is called “Male 
Dominance—Men Have to Control” which emphasizes to the 
reader that the pimp impresses others by his subjugation of 
the female. The Milners contend: 

First and foremost, the pimp must be in complete control of 
his women; this control is made conspicuous to others by a 
series of little rituals which express symbolically his woman’s 
attitude. When in the company of others she must take special 
pains to treat him with absolute deference and respect. She 
must light his cigarettes, respond to 


150 



his every whim immediately and never, never, eontradiet him. 
In fact, a ho’s strictly not supposed to speak in the company 
of pimps unless spoken to. 

The role pimps expected women to play is merely an 
imitation of the role patriarchs expect their wives and 
daughters to play. The passive subordinate demeanor 
expected of the prostitute is not unlike that demanded of all 
women in patriarchal society. 

Black men who joined the Black Muslim groups in the sixties 
and seventies were committed to sexist role patterns. In his 
first-hand report of the Black Muslim movement Black 
Nationalism, published in 1962, E.U. Essien-Udom noted that 
the black men who joined the Muslims were those who 
accepted the “feminine ideal” as woman’s natural role. 
Essien-Udom observed: 

Muslim women appear to accept their men as ‘first among 
equals,’ and in theory, at least, regard the man as the 
breadwinner and the head of the family. The Muslim women 
address the men as ‘sir.’ Wives address husbands similarly. 

It was understood in the Muslim love relationship that the 
woman would defer to the man on all occasions. Many black 
women were eager to join the Muslims because they wanted 
black men to act in a dominant role. Eike other black 
liberation groups, the Black Muslims glorified manhood and 
at the same time relegated women to the status of a 
subordinate. 

Malcolm X was the Black Muslim leader that many people 
saw as an exemplary figure of black manhood, but it is 


151 



impossible to read his autobiography without beeoming aware 
of the hatred and contempt he felt toward women for much of 
his life. Toward the middle of the book Malcolm writes of the 
black woman he has married: 

I guess by now I will say I love Betty. She’s the only woman 
I ever even thought about loving. And she’s one of the very 
few—four women—whom I have ever trusted. The thing is, 
Betty’s a good Muslim woman and wife... 

Betty... understands me. I would even say I don’t imagine 
many other women might put up with the way I am. 
Awakening this brainwashed black man and telling this 
arrogant, devilish white man the truth about himself, Betty 
understands, is a full-time job. If I have work to do when I am 
home, the little time I am at home, she lets me have the quiet I 
need to work in. I’m rarely at home more than half of any 
week; I have been away as much as five months. I never get 
much chance to take her anywhere and I know she likes being 
with her husband. She is used to my calling her from airports 
anywhere from Boston to San Francisco, or Miami to Seattle, 
or, here lately, cabling her from Cairo, Accra, or the Holy 
City of Mecca. 

While Malcolm extolled the virtues of his wife, his general 
attitude toward women was extremely negative. 

An important aspect of the Black Muslim movement for 
many of its members was its puritanical emphasis on 
purifying and cleansing black people, in particular black 
women, of their unclean sexuality. In American patriarchy, all 
women are believed to embody sexual evil. Sexual racism has 
caused black women to bear the brunt of society’s need to 


152 



degrade and devalue women. While white women have been 
placed on a symbolic pedestal, black women are seen as 
fallen women. In the black community the fair-skinned black 
woman who most nearly resembled white women was seen as 
the “lady” and placed on a pedestal while darker-skinned 
black women were seen as bitches and whores. Black men 
have shown the same obsessive lust and contempt for female 
sexuality that is encouraged throughout our society. Because 
they, like white men, see black women as inherently more 
sexual and morally depraved than other groups of women, 
they have felt the greatest contempt toward her. Within the 
Muslim movement, the black man who had once looked upon 
black women as devalued property could suddenly see her as 
elevated to the status of respected wife and mother, that is, 
after she wrapped her head in cloth and covered her body in 
long skirts and dresses. 

Essein-Udom reported that most black women were 
motivated to join the Muslim movement by the promise that 
they would be respected by black men. He calls this section 
“The Negro Women; Journey from Shame” and comments: 

One of the principal motives which lead Negro women to join 
the Nation is their desire to escape from their position 
as women in Negro subculture... Womanly virtues are 
respected in the Nation. The Muslim male’s attitude toward, 
and treatment of, Negro women contrasts sharply with the 
disrespect and indifference with which lower-class Negroes 
treat them. Muhammad’s semireligious demand that his 
followers must respect the black woman has an appeal for 
black women seeking to escape from their lowly and 
humiliating position in Negro society and from the predatory 
sex ethos of the lower-class. A refuge from these abuses is 


153 



found in the Nation of Islam, and freedom from sex 
exploitation. It is a journey from shame to dignity. 

Blaek women entering the Nation of Islam were treated with 
greater respeet than they were aeeustomed to prior to their 
eonversion, but this better treatment did not happen beeause 
Muslim blaek men had changed their basic negative attitudes 
toward women. It happened because their male leader Elijah 
Muhammad decided that it would be in the movement’s 
interest to develop a strong patriarchal base in which women 
were given protection and consideration in exchange for 
submission. In many cases, Black Muslim men, who treated 
black women within the movement with respect, continued to 
abuse and exploit non-Muslim women. Like white men, their 
labeling of one group of women as “good” necessitated the 
labeling of another group as “bad.” The black male’s move to 
idealize black womanhood was not unlike white male 
idealization of white women during the 19th century. 
Whereas white men elevated white female status by labeling 
black women sluts and whores, 20th century black Muslim 
men elevated black females by labeling white women 
she-devils and whores. In both cases neither group of men 
could surrender their belief that women are inherently evil. 
They maintained their contemptuous attitudes toward women 
but simply channeled them in a specific direction. 

A number of non-Muslim black men who regarded black 
women as devalued property sought white female 
companions. Black men’s idealization of white womanhood is 
as rooted in sexist woman-hating as is their devaluation of 
black womanhood. In both cases, women are still being 
reduced to the level of objects. The idealized woman becomes 


154 



property, symbol, and ornament; she is stripped of her 
essential human qualities. The 

devalued woman becomes a different kind of object; she is 
the spittoon in which men release their negative anti-woman 
feelings. Those black men who believe deeply in the 
American dream, which is in essence a masculine dream of 
dominance and success at the expense of others, are most 
likely to express negative feelings about black women and 
positive feelings about white women. It is not surprising that 
the black male who finds self-affirmation on the terms set 
forth by white men would desire a white woman. Because he 
is living every moment of his life in competition with white 
men, he must also compete for the woman the white male has 
decided best represents “Miss America.” 

The popular notion that black men desire white women 
because they are so much more “feminine” than black women 
has been used to place responsibility for black male desire for 
white female companions onto black women. In sexist terms, 
if black men are rejecting black women and seeking other 
companions, then surely black women must be doing 
something wrong since men are always right. The truth is—in 
sexist America, where women are objectified extensions of 
male ego, black women have been labeled hamburger and 
white women prime rib. And it is white men who have 
created this race-sex hierarchy, not black men. Black men 
merely accept and support it. In fact, if white men decided at 
any given moment that owning a purple female was the 
symbol of masculine status and success, black men in 
competition with white men would have to try and possess a 
purple female. While I believe it is perfectly normal for 
people of different races to be sexually attracted to one 
another, I do not think that black men who confess to loving 


155 



white women and hating black women or vice versa are 
simply expressing personal preferences free of culturally 
socialized biases. 

Black men have been eager to present their desire to 
“possess” white women as an attempt to overcome racial 
dehumanization. In Sex and Racism in America, Calvin 
Hemton contends: 

In America, however, where the Negro is the underdog and 
the white woman is the great symbol of sexual purity and 
pride, the black man is often driven to pursue her in lieu of 
aggrandizing his lack of self-esteem. Having the white 
woman, who is the prize of our culture, is a way of 
triumphing over a society that denies the Negro his basic 
humanity. 

Note that Hemton continually uses the word “Negro” when 
he is in fact referring solely to black men. All too often black 
men have tried to argue (and in many cases have successfully 
convinced their audience) that their objectification of white 
females has some direct correlation to the degree to which 
they are oppressed in American society. This logic enables 
them to mask the basic anti-woman feeling that stimulates 
their lust to possess white women. Many black men who date 
and marry white women have positive self-concepts and have 
achieved a certain measure of capitalist status and success. 
Their desire for white companions is less an indication of how 
bmtalized they are by white racism and more an expression of 
the fact that their successes mean little if they cannot also 
possess that human object white patriarchal culture offers to 
men as the supreme reward for masculine achievement. 


156 



Few black men who discuss black male/white female 
relationships question why it is black men do not seek to 
challenge the values of that white patriarchy that encourages 
them to objectify and if possible exploit white women. 
Instead they present the black male as a “victim,” one who is 
unable to resist the societal seduction that teaches him to 
de-humanize black women through devaluation and 
de-humanize white women through idealization. In actuality, 
black men do not resist the efforts of white male advertisers 
and public relations people who encourage them to objectify 
all women, and in particular white women, because to do so 
would be to challenge patriarchy and its oppression of 
women. The black male’s assertion that “possessing” a white 
woman is a triumph over racism is a false truth that masks the 
reality that his acceptance of her as “the” symbol of status and 
success is primarily an indication of the extent to which he 
supports and accepts patriarchy. In their eagerness to gain 
access to the bodies of white women, many black men have 
shown that they were far more concerned with exerting 
masculine privilege than challenging racism. Their behavior 
is not unlike that of white male patriarchs who, on 
one hand, claimed to be white supremacists, but who could 
not forego sexual contact with the women of the very race 
they claimed to hate. What this indicates is that as men, they 
place the exertion of masculine privilege above all else in life. 
And if it is necessary for them to abuse and exploit women in 
order to maintain that privilege, they will do so without 
hesitation. 

Often in feminist writing, women express bitterness, rage, and 
anger about male oppressors because it is one step that helps 
them to cease believing in romanticized versions of sex-role 
patterns that deny woman’s humanity. Unfortunately, our 


157 



over-emphasis on the male as oppressor often obseures the 
fact that men too are victimized. To be an oppressor is 
dehumanizing and anti-human in nature, as it is to be a 
victim. Patriarchy forces fathers to act as monsters, 
encourages husbands and lovers to be rapists in disguise; it 
teaches our blood brothers to feel ashamed that they care for 
us, and denies all men the emotional life that would act as a 
humanizing, self-affirming force in their lives. The old notion 
of the patriarch who is worthy of respect and honor has long 
had no place in an advanced capitalist world. Since patriarchy 
has become merely a sub-heading under the dominant system 
of imperialist capitalism, as patriarchs men do not serve their 
families and communities but serve the interests of the State. 
Consequently they are not affirmed in their domestic lives. As 
one psychotherapist emphasizes in The American Male: 

He may have been a big hero in high school—president of the 
student body or a star athlete, that sort of thing. But then he 
gets out into the world, and he becomes a cog in the 
organization, and he comes home feeling defeated. 

Men are encouraged to phobically focus on women as their 
ENEMY so that they will blindly allow other forces—the 
truly powerful de-humanizing elements in American life—to 
strip them daily of their humanity. The select group of 
patriarchal women (who support and uphold patriarchal 
ideology) and patriarchal men who shape American 
capitalism have in fact made sexism into a commodity that 
they can sell while at the same time brainwashing men to feel 
that personal identity, worth and value, can be obtained 
through the oppression of 

women, and that is the ultimate weapon by which patriarchs 
keep men in states of submission. 


158 



Commenting on black female/male relationships, one writer 
asserts: 

Self-hatred and violence seethe in black sexual relationships. 
Because of this, black men and women rarely experience 
natural love in their relating—they get sex and no love or they 
get love and no sex. The love quality, plus the quality of 
respect for females is impoverished by the pimp/whore 
syndrome imposed for so long upon black people by 
American racism and oppression. Violence masquerades as 
affection. The deeper, more binding emotions of male and 
female are mutilated via mutual exploitation, distrust, 
disrespect and strivings for selfish aggrandizement. In fact, 
there are thousands and thousands of young and old blacks 
who know of no other mode, who have no other conception of 
what a man/woman relationship is except that of sex, money, 
automobiles, and male/female politics (“war of the sexes”) 
vehicled by violence, physical or verbal, or both. 

This writer sees the negative tensions that exist between black 
women and men as being solely motivated by “American 
racism and oppression.” This over-emphasis on racism as the 
explanation for black female/male problems in relationships 
blinds us to the reality that sexism has as grave an impact on 
our modes of relating. The unwillingness of many black 
people to acknowledge that sexism fosters and perpetuates 
violence and hatred between men and women is due to their 
unwillingness to challenge patriarchal social order. Black men 
and women who support patriarchy and consequently support 
sexist oppression of women have a tremendous investment in 
presenting the social situation of black people in such a way 
that it seems we are only oppressed and victimized by racism. 


159 



But let’s face it—despite the reality of racist oppression there 
are other ways that we as black people are victimized in 
American society. And it is just as important that we be aware 
of other oppressive forces like sexism, capitalism, narcissism, 
etc., that threaten our human liberation. It in no way 
diminishes our concern about racist oppression for us to 
acknowledge that our human experience is so complex that 
we cannot understand 

it if we only understand racism. Fighting against sexist 
oppression is important for black liberation, for as long as 
sexism divides black women and men we cannot concentrate 
our energies on resisting racism. Many of the tensions and 
problems in black male/female relationships are caused by 
sexism and sexist oppression. And the black writer who 
commented on these relationships would have been closer to 
the mark if he had stated: 

Self-hatred and violence seethe in sexual relationships. 
Because of this, men and women rarely experience natural 
love in their relating—they get sex and no love or they get 
love and no sex. The love quality, plus the quality of respect 
for females is impoverished by the pimp/whore syndrome 
imposed for so long upon people by American patriarchy and 
sexist oppression. Violence masquerades as affection. The 
deeper, more binding emotions of male and female are 
mutilated via mutual exploitation, distrust, disrespect and 
strivings for selfish aggrandizement. In fact, there are 
thousands and thousands of young and old people who know 
of no other mode, who have no other conception of what a 
man/woman relationship is except that of sex, money, 
automobiles, and male/female politics (“war of the sexes”) 
vehicled by violence, physical, or verbal, or both. 


160 



Those women and men who feel concerned about the 
mounting hatred and violence in black female/male 
relationships come no closer to understanding the actual 
dynamics of that aggression when they refuse to acknowledge 
sexism as an oppressive force. Black nationalism, with its 
emphasis on separatism and forming new cultures, has 
allowed many black people to think that we have somehow 
lived in American society for hundreds of years and yet have 
remained untouched, uninfluenced by the world around us. It 
is this romanticized notion of our blackness (the myth of the 
noble savage) that allows many people to refuse to see that 
the social orders black nationalists have proposed with their 
foundation of patriarchy would not have changed in any way 
negative feelings between black women and men. In the name 
of liberating black folks from white oppressors, black men 
could present oppression of black women as a strength—a 
sign of newfound glory. Consequently, black liberation 
movements have had many positive 

implications as regards eliminating racist oppression but in no 
way present programs that are aimed at eliminating sexist 
oppression. Black female/male relationships (like all male/ 
female relationships in American society) are tyrannized by 
the imperialism of patriarchy which makes oppression of 
women a cultural necessity. 

As people of color, our struggle against racial imperialism 
should have taught us that wherever there exists a master/ 
slave relationship, an oppressed/oppressor relationship, 
violence, mutiny, and hatred will permeate all elements of 
life. There can be no freedom for black men as long as they 
advocate subjugation of black women. There can be no 
freedom for patriarchal men of all races as long as they 
advocate subjugation of women. Absolute power for 


161 



patriarchs is not freeing. The nature of faseism is sueh that it 
eontrols, limits, and restricts leaders as well as the people 
faseists oppress. Freedom (and by that term I do not mean to 
evoke some wishy-washy hang-loose do-as-you-like world) 
as positive soeial equality that grants all humans the 
opportunity to shape their destinies in the most healthy and 
eommunally produetive way ean only be a eomplete reality 
when our world is no longer raeist or sexist. 


162 



4 

Racism and Feminism: The 
Issue of Accountability 

American women of all races are socialized to thi nk of racism 
solely in the context of race hatred. Specifically in the case of 
black and white people, the term racism is usually seen as 
synonymous with discrimination or prejudice against black 
people by white people. For most women, the first knowledge 
of racism as institutionalized oppression is engendered either 
by direct personal experience or through information gleaned 
from conversations, books, television, or movies. 
Consequently, the American woman’s understanding of 
racism as a political tool of colonialism and imperialism is 
severely limited. To experience the pain of race hatred or to 
witness that pain is not to understand its origin, evolution, or 
impact on world history. The inability of American women to 
understand racism in the context of American politics is not 
due to any inherent deficiency in woman’s psyche. It merely 
reflects the extent of our victimization. 

No history books used in public schools informed us about 
racial imperialism. Instead we were given romantic notions of 
the “new world,” the “American dream,” America as the great 
melting pot where all races come together as one. We were 
taught that Columbus discovered America; that “Indians” 
were scalphunters, killers of innocent women and children; 
that black people were enslaved because of the biblical curse 


163 


of Ham, that God “himself’ had decreed they would be 
hewers of wood, tillers of the field, and bringers of water. No 
one talked of Africa as the cradle of civilization, of the 
African and Asian people who came to America before 
Columbus. No one mentioned mass murders of Native 
Americans as genocide, or the rape of Native American and 
African women as terrorism. No one discussed slavery as a 
foundation for the growth of capitalism. No one described the 
forced breeding of white wives to increase the white 
population as sexist oppression. 

I am a black woman. I attended all-black public schools. I 
grew up in the south where all around me was the fact of 
racial discrimination, hatred, and forced segregation. Yet my 
education as to the politics of race in American society was 
not that different from that of white female students I met in 
integrated high schools, in college, or in various women’s 
groups. The majority of us understood racism as a social evil 
perpetuated by prejudiced white people that could be 
overcome through bonding between blacks and liberal whites, 
through militant protest, changing of laws or racial 
integration. Higher educational institutions did nothing to 
increase our limited understanding of racism as a political 
ideology. Instead professors systematically denied us truth, 
teaching us to accept racial polarity in the form of white 
supremacy and sexual polarity in the form of male 
dominance. 

American women have been socialized, even brainwashed, to 
accept a version of American history that was created to 
uphold and maintain racial imperialism in the form of white 
supremacy and sexual imperialism in the form of patriarchy. 
One measure of the success of such indoctrination is that we 


164 



perpetuate both consciously and unconsciously the very evils 
that oppress us. I am certain that the black female sixth grade 
teacher who taught us history, who taught us to identify with 
the American government, who loved those students who 
could best recite the pledge of allegiance to the American flag 
was not aware of the contradiction; that we should love this 
government that segregated us, that failed to send schools 
with all black students supplies that went to schools with only 
white pupils. Unknowingly she implanted in our psyches a 
seed of the racial imperialism that would keep us forever in 
bondage. For how does one overthrow, change, or even 
challenge a system that you have been taught to admire, to 
love, to believe in? Her innocence does not change the reality 
that she was teaching black children to embrace the very 
system that oppressed us, that she encouraged us to support it, 
to stand in awe of it, to die for it. 

That American women, irrespective of their education, 
economic status, or racial identification, have undergone 
years of sexist and racist socialization that has taught us to 
blindly trust our knowledge of history and its effect on 
present reality, even though that knowledge has been formed 
and shaped by an oppressive system, is nowhere more evident 
than in the recent feminist movement. The group of 
college-educated white middle and upper class women who 
came together to organize a women’s movement brought a 
new energy to the concept of women’s rights in America. 
They were not merely advocating social equality with men. 
They demanded a transformation of society, a revolution, a 
change in the American social structure. Yet as they 
attempted to take feminism beyond the realm of radical 
rhetoric and into the realm of American life, they revealed 
that they had not changed, had not undone the sexist and 


165 



racist brainwashing that had taught them to regard women 
unlike themselves as Others. Consequently, the Sisterhood 
they talked about has not beeome a reality, and the women’s 
movement they envisioned would have a transformative 
effeet on Ameriean eulture has not emerged. Instead, the 
hierarehieal pattern of raee and sex relationships already 
established in Ameriean soeiety merely took a different form 
under “feminism”: the form of women being elassed as an 
oppressed group under affirmative aetion programs further 
perpetuating the myth that the soeial status of all women in 
Ameriea is the same; the form of women’s studies programs 
being established with all-white faeulty teaehing literature 
almost exelusively by white women about white women and 
frequently from raeist perspeetives; the form of white women 
writing books that purport 

to be about the experienee of Ameriean women when in faet 
they eoneentrate solely on the experienee of white women; 
and finally the form of endless argument and debate as to 
whether or not raeism was a feminist issue. 

If the white women who organized the eontemporary 
movement toward feminism were at all remotely aware of 
raeial polities in Ameriean history, they would have known 
that overeoming barriers that separate women from one 
another would entail eonfronting the reality of raeism, and not 
just raeism as a general evil in soeiety but the raee hatred they 
might harbor in their own psyehes. Despite the predominanee 
of patriarehal rule in Ameriean soeiety, Ameriea was 
eolonized on a raeially imperialistie base and not on a 
sexually imperialistie base. No degree of patriarehal bonding 
between white male eolonizers and Native Ameriean men 
overshadowed white raeial imperialism. Raeism took 
preeedenee over sexual allianees in both the white world’s 


166 



interaction with Native Americans and African Americans, 
just as racism overshadowed any bonding between black 
women and white women on the basis of sex. Tunisian writer 
Albert Memmi emphasizes in The Colonizer and the 
Colonized the impact of racism as a tool of imperialism: 

Racism appears... not as an incidental detail, but as a 
con-substantial part of colonialism. It is the highest 
expression of the colonial system and one of the most 
significant features of the colonialist. Not only does it 
establish a fundamental discrimination between colonizer and 
colonized, a sine qua non of colonial life, but it also lays the 
foundation for the immutability of this life. 

While those feminists who argue that sexual imperialism is 
more endemic to all societies than racial imperialism are 
probably correct, American society is one in which racial 
imperialism supersedes sexual imperialism. 

In America, the social status of black and white women has 
never been the same. In 19th and early 20th century America, 
few if any similarities could be found between the life 
experiences of the two female groups. Although they were 
both subject to sexist victimization, as victims of racism black 
women were subjected to oppressions no white woman was 
forced to endure. In fact, white racial imperialism granted all 
white women, however victimized by sexist oppression they 
might be, the right to assume the role of oppressor in 
relationship to black women and black men. From the onset 
of the contemporary move toward feminist revolution, white 
female organizers attempted to minimize their position in the 
racial caste hierarchy of American society. In their efforts to 
dis-associate themselves from white men (to deny 


167 



connections based on shared raeial caste), white women 
involved in the move toward feminism have charged that 
racism is endemic to white male patriarehy and have argued 
that they cannot be held responsible for racist oppression. 
Commenting on the issue of white female aceountability in 
her essay ‘“Disloyal to Civilization’: Feminism, Racism, and 
Gynephobia,” radieal feminist Adrienne Rich contends: 

If Black and White feminists are going to speak of female 
accountability, I believe the word racism must be seized, 
grasped in our bare hands, ripped out of the sterile or 
defensive consciousness in which it so often grows, and 
transplanted so that it can yield new insights for our lives and 
our movement. An analysis that places the guilt for aetive 
domination, physical and institutional violence, and the 
justifications embedded in myth and language, on white 
women not only compounds false consciousness; it allows us 
all to deny or negleet the charged connection among black 
and white women from the historical conditions of slavery on, 
and it impedes any real diseussion of women’s 
instrumentality in a system which oppresses all women and in 
which hatred of women is also embedded in myth, folklore, 
and language. 

No reader of Rieh’s essay could doubt that she is coneemed 
that women who are eommitted to feminism work to 
overeome barriers that separate black and white women. 
However, she fails to understand that from a black female 
perspective, if white women are denying the existence of 
black women, writing “feminist” seholarship as if black 
women are not a part of the colleetive group American 
women, or discriminating against black women, then it 


168 



matters less that North Ameriea was eolonized by white 
patriarchal men who institutionalized a 

racially imperialistic social order than that white women who 
purport to be feminists support and actively perpetuate 
anti-black racism. 

To black women the issue is not whether white women are 
more or less racist than white men, but that they are racist. If 
women committed to feminist revolution, be they black or 
white, are to achieve any understanding of the “charged 
connections” between white women and black women, we 
must first be willing to examine woman’s relationship to 
society, to race, and to American culture as it is and not as we 
would ideally have it be. That means confronting the reality 
of white female racism. Sexist discrimination has prevented 
white women from assuming the dominant role in the 
perpetuation of white racial imperialism, but it has not 
prevented white women from absorbing, supporting, and 
advocating racist ideology or acting individually as racist 
oppressors in various spheres of American life. 

Every women’s movement in America from its earliest origin 
to the present day has been built on a racist foundation— a 
fact which in no way invalidates feminism as a political 
ideology. The racial apartheid social structure that 
characterized 19th and early 20th century American life was 
mirrored in the women’s rights movement. The first white 
women’s rights advocates were never seeking social equality 
for all women; they were seeking social equality for white 
women. Because many 19th century white women’s rights 
advocates were also active in the abolitionist movement, it is 
often assumed they were anti-racist. Historiographers and 
especially recent feminist writing have created a version of 


169 



American history in which white women’s rights advocates 
are presented as champions of oppressed black people. This 
fierce romanticism has informed most studies of the 
abolitionist movement. In contemporary times there is a 
general tendency to equate abolitionism with a repudiation of 
racism. In actuality, most white abolitionists, male and 
female, though vehement in their antislavery protest, were 
totally opposed to granting social equality to black people. 
Joel Kovel, in his study White Racism; A Psychohistory, 
emphasizes that the “actual aim of the reform 
movement, so nobly and bravely begun, was not the liberation 
of the black, but the fortification of the white, conscience and 
all.” 

It is a commonly accepted belief that white female reformist 
empathy with the oppressed black slave, coupled with her 
recognition that she was powerless to end slavery, led to the 
development of a feminist consciousness and feminist revolt. 
Contemporary historiographers and in particular white female 
scholars accept the theory that the white women’s rights 
advocates’ feelings of solidarity with black slaves were an 
indication that they were anti-racist and were supportive of 
social equality of blacks. It is this glorification of the role 
white women played that leads Adrienne Rich to assert: 

... It is important for white feminists to remember that— 
despite lack of constitutional citizenship, educational 
deprivation, economic bondage to men, laws and customs 
forbidding women to speak in public or to disobey fathers, 
husbands, and brothers—our white foresisters have, in Lillian 
Smith’s words, repeatedly been “disloyal to civilization” and 
have “smelled death in the word ‘segregation’,” often defying 
patriarchy for the first time, not on their own behalf but for 


170 



the sake of blaek men, women, and ehildren. We have a 
strong anti-racist female tradition despite all efforts by the 
white patriarchy to polarize its creature-objects, creating 
dichotomies of privilege and caste, skin color, and age and 
condition of servitude. 

There is little historical evidence to document Rich’s 
assertion that white women as a collective group or white 
womens rights advocates are part of an anti-racist tradition. 
When white women reformers in the 1830s chose to work to 
free the slave, they were motivated by religious sentiment. 
They attacked slavery, not racism. The basis of their attack 
was moral reform. That they were not demanding social 
equality for black people is an indication that they remained 
committed to white racist supremacy despite their anti-slavery 
work. While they strongly advocated an end to slavery, they 
never advocated a change in the racial hierarchy that allowed 
their caste status to be higher than that of black women or 
men. In fact, they wanted that hierarchy to be maintained. 
Consequently, the white women’s rights movement which 
had a lukewarm beginning in 

earlier reform activities emerged in full force in the wake of 
efforts to gain rights for black people precisely because white 
women wanted to see no change in the social status of blacks 
until they were assured that their demands for more rights 
were met. 

White women’s rights advocate and abolitionist Abby Kelly’s 
comment, “We have good cause to be grateful to the slave for 
the benefit we have received to ourselves, in working for him. 
In striving to strike his irons off, we found most surely, that 
we were manacled ourselves,” is often quoted by scholars as 
evidence that white women became conscious of their own 


171 



limited rights as they worked to end slavery. Despite popular 
19th eentury rhetorie, the notion that white women had to 
learn from their efforts to free the slave of their own limited 
rights is simply erroneous. No 19th eentury white woman 
could grow to maturity without an awareness of 
institutionalized sexism. White women did learn via their 
efforts to free the slave that white men were willing to 
advocate rights for blacks while denouncing rights for 
women. As a result of negative reaction to their reform 
activity and public effort to curtail and prevent their 
anti-slavery work, they were forced to acknowledge that 
without outspoken demands for equal rights with white men 
they might ultimately be lumped in the same social category 
with blacks—or even worse, black men might gain a higher 
social status than theirs. 

It did not enhance the cause of oppressed black slaves for 
white women to make synonymous their plight and the plight 
of the slave. Despite Abby Kelly’s dramatic statement, there 
was very little if any similarity between the day-to-day life 
experiences of white women and the day-to-day experiences 
of the black slave. Theoretically, the white woman’s legal 
status under patriarchy may have been that of “property,” but 
she was in no way subjected to the de-humanization and 
brutal oppression that was the lot of the slave. When white 
reformers made synonymous the impact of sexism on their 
lives, they were not revealing an awareness of or sensitivity to 
the slave’s lot; they were simply appropriating the horror of 
the slave experience to enhance their own cause. 

The fact that the majority of white women reformers did not 
feel political solidarity with black people was made evident in 
the conflict over the vote. When it appeared that white men 


172 



might grant black men the right to vote while leaving white 
women disenfranchised, white suffragists did not respond as a 
group by demanding that all women and men deserved the 
right to vote. They simply expressed anger and outrage that 
white men were more eommitted to maintaining sexual 
hierarchies than raeial hierarehies in the political arena. 
Ardent white women’s rights advoeates like Elizabeth Cady 
Stanton who had never before argued for women’s rights on a 
racially imperialistic platform expressed outrage that inferior 
“niggers” should be granted the vote while “superior” white 
women remained disenfranehised. Stanton argued: 

If Saxon men have legislated thus for their own mothers, 
wives and daughters, what ean we hope for at the hands of 
Chinese, Indians, and Africans?... I protest against the 
enfranchisement of another man of any race or clime until the 
daughters of Jefferson, Haneoek, and Adams are erowned 
with their rights. 

White suffragists felt that white men were insulting white 
womanhood by refusing to grant them privileges that were to 
be granted black men. They admonished white men not for 
their sexism but for their willingness to allow sexism to 
overshadow racial alliances. Stanton, along with other white 
women’s rights supporters, did not want to see blaeks 
enslaved, but neither did she wish to see the status of black 
people improved while the status of white women remained 
the same. 

At the beginning of the 20th century, white women suffragists 
were eager to advanee their own eause at the expense of black 
people. In 1903 at the National Ameriean Woman’s Suffrage 
Convention held in New Orleans, a southern suffragist urged 


173 



the enfranchisement of white women on the grounds that it 
“would insure immediate and durable white supremacy.” 
Historian Rosalyn Terborg-Penn discusses white female 
support of white supremacy in her essay “Discrimination 
Against Afro-American Women in the Woman’s Movement 
1830-1920”: 

As early as the 1890’s, Susan B. Anthony realized the 
potential to the woman suffrage cause in wooing southern 
white women. She chose expedience over loyalty and justice 
when she asked veteran feminist supporter Frederick 
Douglass not to attend the National American Woman 
Suffrage Association convention scheduled in Atlanta.... 

During the National American Woman Suffrage Association 
meeting of 1903 in New Orleans, the Times Democrat 
assailed the association because of its negative attitude on the 
question of black women and the suffrage for them. In a 
prepared statement signed by Susan B. Anthony, Carrie C. 
Catt, Anna Howard Shaw, Kate N. Gordon, Alice Stone 
Blackwell, Harriet Taylor Upton, Laura Clay, and Mary 
Coggeshall, the board of officers of the NAWSA endorsed the 
organization’s states* rights position, which was tantamount 
to an endorsement of white supremacy in most states, 
particularly in the south. 

Racism within the women’s rights movement did not emerge 
simply as a response to the issue of suffrage; it was a 
dominant force in all reform groups with white female 
members. Terborg-Penn contends: 

Discrimination against Afro-American women reformers was 
the rule rather than the exception within the woman’s rights 


174 



movement from the 1830’s to 1920. Although white feminists 
Susan B. Anthony, Lucy Stone, and some others encouraged 
black women to join the struggle against sexism during the 
nineteenth century, antebellum reformers who were involved 
with women’s abolitionist groups as well as women’s rights 
organizations actively discriminated against black women. 

In their efforts to prove that solidarity existed between 19th 
century black and white female reformers, contemporary 
women activists often cite the presence of Sojourner Truth at 
Women’s Rights conventions to support their argument that 
white female suffragists were anti-racist. But on every 
occassion Sojourner Truth spoke, groups of white women 
protested. In The Betrayal of the Negro, Rayford Logan 
writes: 

When the General Federation of Women’s Clubs was faced 
with the question of the color line at the turn of the century. 
Southern clubs threatened to secede. One of the first 
expressions of the adamant opposition to the admission of 
colored clubs was disclosed by the Chicago Tribune and the 
Examiner during the great festival of fraternization at the 
Atlanta Exposition, the Encampment of the GAR in 
Eouisville, and the dedication of the Chickamauga 
battlefield.... The Georgia Women’s Press Club felt so 
strongly on the subject that members were in favor of 
withdrawing from the Eederation if colored women were 
admitted there. Miss Corinne Stocker, a member of the 
Managing Board of the Georgia Women’s Press Club and one 
of the editors of the Atlanta Journal, stated on September 19: 
“In this matter the Southern women are not narrow-minded or 
bigoted, but they simply cannot recognize the colored women 


175 



socially.... At the same time we feel that the South is the 
eolored woman’s best friend.” 

Southern white women’s elub members were most vehement 
in their opposition to blaek women joining their ranks, but 
northern white women also supported raeial segregation. The 
issue of whether blaek women would be able to partieipate in 
the women’s elub movement on an equal footing with white 
women eame to a head in Milwaukee at the General 
Federation of Women’s Clubs eonferenee when the question 
was raised as to whether blaek feminist Mary Church Terrell, 
then president of the National Assoeiation of Colored 
Women, would be allowed to offer greetings, and whether 
Josephine Ruffin, who represented the blaek organization the 
New Era Club, would be reeognized. In both oases white 
women’s raoism oarried the day. In an interview in the 
Chioago Tribune, the president of the federation, Mrs. Lowe, 
was asked to oomment on the refusal to aoknowledge blaek 
female partioipants like Josephine Ruffin, and she responded: 
“Mrs. Ruffin belongs among her own people. Among them 
she would be a leader and oould do muoh good, but among us 
she oan oreate nothing but trouble.” Rayford Logan oomments 
on the faot that white women like Mrs. Lowe had no objeetion 
to blaek women trying to improve their lot; they simply felt 
that raeial apartheid should be maintained. Writing of Mrs. 
Lowe’s attitude toward blaek women, Logan oomments: 

Mrs. Lowe had assisted in establishing kindergartens for 
eolored ohildren in the South, and the eolored women in 
oharge of them were all her good friends. She assooiated with 
them in a business way, but, of oourse they would not think of 
sitting beside her at a oonvention. Negroes were “a raoe by 
themselves, and among themselves they oan aooomplish 


176 



much, assisted by us and by the federation, whieh is ever 
ready to do all in its power to help them.” If Mrs. Ruffin were 
the “cultured lady every one says she is, she should put her 
edueation and her talents to good uses as a eolored woman 
among eolored women.” 

Anti-blaek feelings among white female elub members were 
mueh stronger than anti-blaek sentiment among white male 
elub members. One white male wrote a letter to the Chieago 
Tribune in whieh he stated: 

Here we have the speetaele of edueated, refined, and Christian 
women who have been protesting and laboring for years 
against the unjust diserimination praetieed against them by 
men, now getting together and the first shot out of their 
retieules is fired at one of their own beeause she is blaek, no 
other reason or pretenee of reason. 

Prejudiees white women aetivists felt toward blaek women 
were far more intense than their prejudiees toward blaek men. 
As Rosalyn Penn states in her essay, blaek men were more 
aeeepted in white reform eireles than blaek women. Negative 
attitudes toward blaek women were the result of prevailing 
raeist-sexist stereotypes that portrayed blaek women as 
morally impure. Many white women felt that their status as 
ladies would be undermined were they to assoeiate with blaek 
women. No sueh moral stigma was attaehed to blaek men. 
Blaek male leaders like Frederiek Douglass, James Forten, 
Henry Garnett and others were oeeasionally weleome in white 
soeial eireles. White women aetivists who would not have 
eonsidered dining in the eompany of blaek women weleomed 
individual blaek men to their family tables. 


177 



Given white fear of amalgamation between the raees and the 
history of white male sexual lust for blaek females, we cannot 
rule out the possibility that white women were reluctant to 
acknowledge black women socially for fear of sexual 
competition. In general, white women did not wish to 
associate with black women because they did not want to be 
contaminated 

by morally impure creatures. White women saw black women 
as a direct threat to their social standing—for how could they 
be idealized as virtuous, goddess-like creatures if they 
associated with black women who were seen by the white 
public as licentious and immoral? In her speech to the 1895 
delegates from black women’s clubs, Josephine Ruffin told 
her audience that the reason white women club members did 
not want to join with black women was because of the 
supposed “black female immorality,” and she urged them to 
protest the perpetuation of negative stereotypes about black 
womanhood: 

All over America there is to be found a large and growing 
class of earnest, intelligent, progressive colored women who, 
if not leading full, useful lives, are only waiting for the 
opportunity to do so, many of them still warped and cramped 
for lack of opportunity, not only to do more but to be more; 
and yet, if an estimate of the colored women of America is 
called for, the inevitable reply, glibly given, is: “For the most 
part, ignorant and immoral, some exceptions of course, but 
these don’t count.” 

... Too long have we been silent under unjust and unholy 
charges.... Year after year southern women have protested 
against the admission of colored women into any national 
organization on the ground of the immorality of these women. 


178 



and because all refutation has only been tried by individual 
work, the charge had never been crushed, as it could and 
should have been at first.... It is to break this silence, not by 
noisy protestation of what we are not, but by a dignified 
showing of what we are and hope to become, that we are 
impelled to take this step, to make of this gathering an object 
lesson to the world. 

The racism white females felt toward black women was as 
apparent in the work arena as it was in the women’s rights 
movement and in the women’s club movement. During the 
years between 1880 and World War I, white women’s rights 
activists focused their attention on obtaining for women the 
right to work in various occupations. They saw work for pay 
as the way for women like themselves to escape economic 
dependence on white men. Robert Smut, author of Women 
and Work in America (a work that would be more accurtely 
titled White Women and Work in America), writes: 

If a woman could support herself in honor, she could refuse to 
marry or stay married, except on her own terms. Thus, work 
was seen by many feminists as an actual or potential 
alternative to marriage, and consequently, as an instrument 
for reforming the marriage relationship. 

The efforts of white women activists to expand employment 
opportunities for women were focused exclusively on 
improving the lot of white women workers, who did not 
identify with black women workers. In fact, the black woman 
worker was seen as a threat to white female security; she 
represented more competition. Relationships between white 
and black women workers were characterized by conflict. 
That conflict became more intense when black women tried 


179 



to enter the industrial labor force and were forced to confront 
racism. In 1919, a study of black women in industry in New 
York City was published called A New Day for the Colored 
Woman Worker. The study began by stating: 

For generations Colored women have been working in the 
fields of the south. They have been the domestic servants of 
both the south and the north, accepting the position of 
personal service open to them. Hard work and unpleasant 
work has been their lot, but they have been almost entirely 
excluded from our shops and factories. Tradition and race 
prejudice have played the largest part in their exclusion. The 
tardy development of the south, and the failure of the Colored 
women to demand industrial opportunities have added further 
barriers.... For these reasons, the Colored women have not 
entered the ranks of the industrial army in the past. 

That they are doing so today cannot be disputed. War 
expediency, for a time at least, partially opened the door of 
industry to them. Factories which had lost men to the war and 
White women to the war industries, took on Colored women 
in their places. The demand for more skilled, semi-skilled and 
unskilled labor had to be met. The existing immigrant labor 
supply had already been tapped and the flow of immigration 
stopped, and semi-skilled White workers were being forced 
up into the really skilled positions by the labor shortage. 
Cheap labor had to be recruited from somewhere. For the first 
time employment bureaus and advertisements inserted the 
word “Colored” before the word “wanted.” Colored women, 
untried as yet, 

were available in large numbers. 


180 



Black female workers who entered the industrial labor foree 
worked in eommereial laundries, food industries, and the less 
skilled branehes of the needle trades, like the lamp shade 
industry whieh depended heavily on the labor of blaek 
women. Hostility between blaek and white female workers 
was the norm. White women did not want to eompete with 
blaek women for jobs nor did they want to work alongside 
black women. To prevent white employers from hiring blaek 
females, white female workers threatened to eease work. 
Often white women workers would use eomplaints about 
blaek women workers as a way of diseouraging an employer 
from hiring them. 

White women employed by the federal government insisted 
that they be segregated from blaek women. In many work 
situations separate work rooms, washrooms, and showers 
were installed so that white women would not have to work 
or wash alongside blaek women. The same argument white 
women elub members used to explain their exelusion of blaek 
women was presented by white women workers, who elaimed 
blaek women were immoral, lieentious, and insolent. They 
further argued that they needed the proteetion of segregation 
so that they would not cateh “Negro” diseases. Some white 
women elaimed to have seen blaek women with vaginal 
diseases. In one instanee a white woman working in the offiee 
of the Reeorder of Deeds, Maud B. Woodward, swore out an 
affidavit asserting: 

That the same toilet is used by whites and blaeks, and some of 
said blaeks have been diseased evidenee thereof being very 
apparent; that one negro woman Alexander has been for years 
afflieted with a private disease, and for dread of using the 


181 



toilet after her some of the white girls are eompelled to suffer 
mentally and physically. 

Competition between black and white women workers for 
jobs was usually decided in favor of white women. Often 
black women were forced to accept jobs that were considered 
too arduous or taxing for white women. In candy factories 
black women not only wrapped and packed candy, they 
worked as 

bakers and in this capacity were constantly lifting heavy trays 
from table to machine and from machine to table. They were 
doing “loosening” in tobacco factories, a process formerly 
done solely by men. Investigators for the New York City 
Study reported: 

Colored women were found on processes that White women 
refuse to perform. They were replacing boys at cleaning 
window shades, work which necessitates constant standing 
and reaching. They were taking men’s places in the dyeing of 
furs, highly objectionable and injurious work involving 
standing, reaching, the use of a weighted brush, and ill 
smelling dye. In a mattress factory they were found replacing 
men at “baling,” working in pairs, wrapping five mattresses 
together and sewing them up ready for shipment. These 
women had to bend constantly and lift clumsy 160 pound 
bales. 

In racially segregated work situations black women workers 
were usually paid a lower wage then white women workers. 
As there was little if any association between the two groups, 
black women did not always know of the disparity between 
their salaries and those of white women. Workers for the New 
York City study found that most employers refused to pay 


182 



black women workers as mueh as white women for doing the 
same job. 

Throughout the trades, differences in the wages of the 
Colored and White were unmistakable. While every other 
Colored woman was reeeiving less than $10.00 a week, of the 
White workers only one out of every six was so poorly 
paid.... A great many employers justified the payment of 
better wages to White women on the grounds of their greater 
speed. Foremen in the millinery faetories, however, admitted 
that they paid the Colored workers less, even though they 
were more satisfactory than the White.... 

This wage diserimination seems to have taken three forms. 
Employers have sometimes segregated the Colored workers, 
keeping the wage seale of the Colored departments lower than 
that of similar departments made up of White workers.... A 
seeond method has been to deny the Colored the opportunity 
of competing in pieee work, as in the ease of the Colored 
pressers in the needle trades who were paid $10.00 a week on 
a time rate basis, while the 

White pressers averaged $12.00 a week at pieee work. The 
third form of diserimination has been the frank refusal of 
employers to pay a Colored woman as much as a White 
woman for a week’s work. 

As a group, white women workers wanted to maintain the 
racial hierarchy that granted them higher status in the labor 
force than black women. Those white women who supported 
employment of black women in unskilled trades felt they 
should be denied access to skilled proeess. Their active 
support of institutionalized racism caused eonstant hostility 
between them and blaek women workers. To avoid uprisings. 


183 



many plants chose to hire either one raee or the other. In 
plants where both groups were present, the conditions under 
which black women worked were mueh worse than those of 
white female workers. The refusal of white women to share 
dressing rooms, bathrooms, or lounge areas with black 
women often meant that black women were denied aceess to 
these comforts. In general black women workers were 
continually abused beeause of the racist attitudes of white 
women workers, and of the white working public as a whole. 
Researehers for the New York City study summed up their 
findings by making a plea that more consideration be given 
the black woman worker in industry: 

It has been apparent throughout this diseussion that the 
coming of the Colored woman into our industries is not 
without its problems. She is doing work which the White 
woman is refusing to do, and at a wage whieh the White 
woman is refusing the aceept. She replaeed White women and 
men and Colored men at a lower wage and is performing 
tasks which may easily prove to be detrimental to her health. 
She is making no more mistakes than are common to a new 
and inexperienced industrial worker, yet she has the greatest 
of all handieaps to overcome. 

What is the status of the Colored woman in industry with the 
coming of peace? At the time of greatest need for production 
and the greatest labor shortage in the history of this eountry 
Colored women were the last to be employed: they were not 
called into industry until there was no other available labor 
supply. They did the most uninteresting work, the most 
menial work and by far the most underpaid work..,. 


184 



The American people will have to go very far in its treatment 
of the Colored industrial woman to square itself with that 
democratic ideal of which it made so much during the war. 

Relationships between white and black women were charged 
by tensions and conflicts in the early part of the 20th century. 
The women’s rights movement had not drawn black and 
white women close together. Instead, it exposed the fact that 
white women were not willing to relinquish their support of 
white supremacy to support the interests of all women. 
Racism in the women’s rights movement and in the work 
arena was a constant reminder to black women of the 
distances that separated the two experiences, distances that 
white women did not want bridged. When the contemporary 
movement toward feminism began, white women organizers 
did not address the issue of conflict between black and white 
women. Their rhetoric of sisterhood and solidarity suggested 
that women in America were able to bond across both class 
and race boundaries—^but no such coming together had 
actually occurred. The structure of the contemporary 
women’s movement was no different from that of the earlier 
women’s rights movement. Like their predecessors, the white 
women who initiated the women’s movement launched their 
efforts in the wake of the 60s black liberation movement. As 
if history were repeating itself, they also began to make 
synonymous their social status and the social status of black 
people. And it was in the context of endless comparisons of 
the plight of “women” and “blacks” that they revealed their 
racism. In most cases, this racism was an unconscious, 
unacknowledged aspect of their thought, suppressed by their 
narcissism—a narcissism which so blinded them that they 
would not admit two obvious facts: one, that in a capitalist, 
racist, imperialist state there is no one social status women 


185 



share as a collective group; and second, that the social status 
of white women in America has never been like that of black 
women or men. 

When the women’s movement began in the late 60s, it was 
evident that the white women who dominated the movement 
felt it was “their” movement, that is the medium through 
which a white woman would voice her grievances to society. 
Not only did white women act as if feminist ideology existed 
solely to serve their own interests because they were able to 
draw public attention to feminist concerns. They were 
unwilling to acknowledge that non-white women were part of 
the collective group women in American society. They urged 
black women to join “their” movement or in some cases the 
women’s movement, but in dialogues and writings, their 
attitudes toward black women were both racist and sexist. 
Their racism did not assume the form of overt expressions of 
hatred; it was far more subtle. It took the form of simply 
ignoring the existence of black women or writing about them 
using common sexist and racist stereotypes. From Betty 
Friedan’s The Feminine Mystique to Barbara Berg’s The 
Remembered Gate and on to more recent publications like 
Capitalist Patriarchy and the Case for Socialist Feminism, 
edited by Zillah Eisenstein, most white female writers who 
considered themselves feminist revealed in their writing that 
they had been socialized to accept and perpetuate racist 
ideology. 

In most of their writing, the white American woman’s 
experience is made synonymous with the American woman’s 
experience. While it is in no way racist for any author to write 
a book exclusively about white women, it is fundamentally 
racist for books to be published that focus solely on the 


186 



American white woman’s experience in which that experience 
is assumed to be the American woman’s experience. For 
example, in the course of research for this book, I sought to 
find information about the life of free and slave black women 
in colonial America. I saw listed in a bibliography Julia 
Cherry Spruill’s work Women’s Life and Work in the 
Southern Colonies, which was first published in 1938 and 
then again in 1972. At the Sisterhood bookstore in Los 
Angeles I found the book and read a blurb on the back which 
had been written especially for the new edition: 

One of the classic works in American social history. 
Women’s Life and Work in the Southern Colonies is the first 
comprehensive study of the daily life and status of women in 
southern colonial America. Julia Cherry Spruill researched 
colonial newspapers, court records, and manuscript 
material of every kind, drawing on archives and libraries from 
Boston to Savannah. The resulting book was, in the words of 
Arthur Schlesinger, Sr., “a model of research and exposition, 
an important contribution to American social history to which 
students will constantly turn.” 

The topics include women’s function in the settlement of the 
colonies; their homes, domestic occupation, and social life; 
the aims and methods of their education; their role in 
government and business affairs outside the home; and the 
manner in which they were regarded by the law and by 
society in general. Out of a wealth of documentation, and 
often from the words of colonial people themselves, a vivid 
and surprising picture—one that had never been seen 
before—emerges of the many different aspects of these 
women’s lives. 


187 



I expected to find in Spruill’s work information about various 
groups of women in American society. I found instead that it 
was another work solely about white women and that both the 
title and blurb were misleading. A more accurate title would 
have been White Women’s Life and Work in the Southern 
Colonies. Certainly, if I or any author sent a manuscript to an 
American publisher that focused exclusively on the life and 
work of black women in the south, also called Women’s Life 
and Work in the Southern Colonies, the title would be 
automatically deemed misleading and unacceptable. The force 
that allows white feminist authors to make no reference to 
racial identity in their books about “women” that are in 
actuality about white women is the same one that would 
compel any author writing exclusively on black women to 
refer explicitly to their racial identity. That force is racism. In 
a racially imperialist nation such as ours, it is the dominant 
race that reserves for itself the luxury of dismissing racial 
identity while the oppressed race is made daily aware of their 
racial identity. It is the dominant race that can make it seem 
that their experience is representative. 

In America, white racist ideology has always allowed white 
women to assume that the word woman is synonymous with 
white woman, for women of other races are always perceived 
as Others, as de-humanized beings who do not fall under the 
heading woman. White feminists who claimed to be 
politically astute showed themselves to be unconscious of the 
way their use of language suggested they did not recognize 
the existence of black women. They impressed upon the 
American public their sense that the word “woman” meant 
white woman by drawing endless analogies between 
“women” and “blacks.” Examples of such analogies abound 
in almost every feminist work. In a collection of essays 


188 



published in 1975 titled Women: A Feminist Perspeetive, an 
essay by Helen Haeker is ineluded ealled “Women as a 
Minority Group” whieh is a good example of the way white 
women have used eomparisons between “women” and 
“blaeks” to exelude blaek women and to defleet attention 
away from their own raeial easte status. Haeker writes: 

The relation between women and Negroes is historieal, as 
well as analogieal. In the seventeenth eentury the legal status 
of Negro servants was borrowed from that of women and 
ehildren, who were under the patria potestas, and until the 
Civil War there was eonsiderable eooperation between the 
Abolitionists and woman suffrage movement. 

Clearly Haeker is referring solely to white women. An even 
more glaring example of the white feminist eomparison 
between “blaeks” and “women” oeeurs in Catherine 
Stimpson’s essay “Thy Neighbor’s Wife, Thy Neighbors 
Servants’: Women’s Liberation and Blaek Civil Rights.” She 
writes: 

The development of an industrial eeonomy, as Myrdal points 
out, has not brought about the integration of women and 
blaeks into the adult male eulture. Women have not found a 
satisfaetory way to bear ehildren and to work. Blaeks have 
not destroyed the hard doetrine of their unassimilability. What 
the eeonomy gives both women and blaeks are menial labor, 
low pay, and few promotions. White male workers hate both 
groups, for their eompetition threatens wages and their 
possible job equality, let alone superiority, threatens nothing 
less than the very nature of things. The tasks of women and 
blaeks are usually grueling, repetitive, slogging, and dirty.... 


189 



Throughout Stimpson’s essay she makes woman synonymous 
with white women and black synonymous with black men. 

Historically, white patriarchs rarely referred to the racial 
identity of white women because they believed that the 
subject of race was political and therefore would contaminate 
the sanctified domain of “white” woman’s reality. By 
verbally denying white women racial identity, that is by 
simply referring to them as women when what they really 
meant was white women, their status was further reduced to 
that of non-person. In much of the literature written by white 
women on the “woman question” from the 19th century to the 
present day, authors will refer to “white men” but use the 
word “woman” when they really mean “white woman.” 
Concurrently, the term “blacks” is often made synonymous 
with black men. In Hacker’s article she draws a chart 
comparing the “castelike status of Women and Negroes.” 
Under the heading “Rationalization of Status” she writes for 
blacks “Thought all right in his place.” (?) Hacker’s and 
Stimpson’s assumption that they can use the word “woman” 
to refer to white women and “black” to refer to black men is 
not unique; most white people and even some black people 
make the same assumption. Racist and sexist patterns in the 
language Americans use to describe reality support the 
exclusion of black women. During the recent political 
uprisings in Iran, newspapers throughout the U.S. carried 
headlines that read “Khomeini Frees Women and Blacks.” In 
fact, the American hostages freed from the Iranian Embassy 
were white women and black men. 

White feminists did not challenge the racist-sexist tendency to 
use the word “woman” to refer solely to white women; they 
supported it. For them it served two purposes. First, it allowed 


190 



them to proclaim white men world oppressors while making it 
appear linguistically that no alliance existed between white 
women and white men based on shared racial imperialism. 
Second, it made it possible for white women to act as if 
alliances did exist between themselves and non-white women 
in our society, and by so doing they could deflect attention 
away from their classism and racism. Had feminists chosen to 
make explicit comparisons between the status of white 
women and that of black people, or more specifically the 
status of black women and white women, it would have been 
more than 

obvious that the two groups do not share an identical 
oppression. It would have been obvious that similarities 
between the status of women under patriarchy and that of any 
slave or colonized person do not necessarily exist in a society 
that is both racially and sexually imperialistic. In such a 
society, the woman who is seen as inferior because of her sex 
can also be seen as superior because of her race, even in 
relationship to men of another race. Because feminists tended 
to evoke an image of women as a collective group, their 
comparisons between “women” and “blacks” were accepted 
without question. This constant comparison of the plight of 
“women” and “blacks” deflected attention away from the fact 
that black women were extremely victimized by both racism 
and sexism—a fact which, had it been emphasized, might 
have diverted public attention away from the complaints of 
middle and upper class white feminists. 

Just as 19th century white woman’s rights advocates 
attempted to make synonymous their lot with that of the black 
slave was aimed at drawing attention away from the slave 
toward themselves, contemporary white feminists have used 
the same metaphor to attract attention to their concerns. Given 


191 



that America is a hierarchical society in which white men are 
at the top and white women are second, it was to be expected 
that should white women complain about not having rights in 
the wake of a movement by black people to gain rights, their 
interests would overshadow those of groups lower on the 
hierarchy, in this case the interests of black people. No other 
group in America has used black people as metaphors as 
extensively as white women involved in the women’s 
movement. Speaking about the purpose of a metaphor, Ortega 
Y Gasset comments: 

A strange thing, indeed, the existence in many of this mental 
activity which substitutes one thing for another— from an 
urge not so much to get at the first as to get rid of the second. 
The metaphor disposes of an object by having it masquerade 
as something else. Such a procedure would make no sense if 
we did not discern beneath it an instinctive avoidance of 
certain realities. 

When white women talked about “Women as Niggers,” “The 
Third World of Women,” “Woman as Slave,” they evoked the 
sufferings and oppressions of non-white people to say “look 
at how bad our lot as white women is, why we are like 
niggers, like the Third World.” Of course, if the situation of 
upper and middle class white women were in any way like 
that of the oppressed people in the world, such metaphors 
would not have been necessary. And if they had been poor 
and oppressed, or women concerned about the lot of 
oppressed women, they would not have been compelled to 
appropriate the black experience. It would have been 
sufficient to describe the oppression of woman’s experience. 
A white woman who has suffered physical abuse and assault 
from a husband or lover, who also suffers poverty, need not 


192 



compare her lot to that of a suffering black person to 
emphasize that she is in pain. 

If white women in the women’s movement needed to make 
use of a black experience to emphasize woman’s oppression, 
it would seem only logical that they foeus on the black female 
experience—^but they did not. They chose to deny the 
existence of black women and to exelude them from the 
women’s movement. When I use the word “exclude” I do not 
mean that they overtly discriminated against black women on 
the basis of raee. There are other ways to exclude and alienate 
people. Many black women felt excluded from the movement 
whenever they heard white women draw analogies between 
“women” and “blaeks.” For by making sueh analogies white 
women were in effect saying to black women; “We don’t 
acknowledge your presence as women in Ameriean soeiety.” 
Had white women desired to bond with black women on the 
basis of common oppression they eould have done so by 
demonstrating any awareness or knowledge of the impact of 
sexism on the status of black women. Unfortunately, despite 
all the rhetoric about sisterhood and bonding, white women 
were not sincerely committed to bonding with black women 
and other groups of women to fight sexism. They were 
primarily interested in drawing attention to their lot as white 
upper and middle class women. 

It was not in the opportunistic interests of white middle and 
upper class participants in the women’s movement to draw 
attention to the plight of poor women, or the specific plight of 
black women. A white woman professor who wants the 
public to see her as victimized and oppressed because she is 
denied tenure is not about to evoke images of poor women 
working as domestics receiving less than the minimum wage 


193 



struggling to raise a family single-handed. Instead it is far 
more likely she will reeeive attention and sympathy if she 
says, “I’m a nigger in the eyes of my white male eolleagues.” 
She evokes the image of innoeent, virtuous white womanhood 
being plaeed on the same level as blaeks and most 
importantly on the same level as blaek men. It is not simply a 
eoineidental detail that white women in the women’s 
movement ehose to make their raee-sex analogies by 
eomparing their lot as white women to that of blaek men. In 
Catherine Stimpson’s essay on women’s liberation and blaek 
eivil rights, in whieh she argues that “blaek liberation and 
women’s liberation must go their separate ways,” blaek eivil 
rights is assoeiated with blaek men and women’s liberation 
with white women. When she writes of the 19th eentury 
women’s rights movement, she quotes from the work of blaek 
male leaders even though blaek women were far more aetive 
in that movement than any blaek male leader. 

Given the psyehohistory of Ameriean raeism, for white 
women to demand more rights from white men and stress that 
without sueh rights they would be plaeed in a soeial position 
like that of blaek men, not like that of blaek people, was to 
evoke in the minds of racist white men an image of white 
womanhood being degraded. It was a subtle appeal to white 
men to protect the white female’s position on the race/sex 
hierarchy. Stimpson writes: 

White men, convinced of the holy primacy of sperm, yet 
guilty about using it, angry at the loss of the cosy sanctuary of 
the womb and the privilege of childhood, have made their sex 
a claim to power and then used their power to claim control of 
sex. In fact and fantasy, they have violently segregated black 
men and white women. The most notorious fantasy claims 


194 



that the black man is sexually evil, low, subhuman; the white 
woman sexually pure elevated, superhuman. Together they 
dramatize the polarities of excrement and disembodied 
spirituality. Blacks and women have been sexual victims, 
often cruelly so: the black 

man castrated, the woman raped and often treated to a psychic 
clitoridectomy. 

For Stimpson, black is black male and woman is white 
female, and though she is depicting the white male as racist, 
she conjures an image of white women and black men sharing 
oppression only to argue that they must go their separate 
ways, and in so doing she makes use of the sex/race analogy 
in such a way as to curry favor from racist white men. 
Ironically, she admonishes white women not to make 
analogies between blacks and themselves but she continues to 
do just that in her essay. By suggesting that without rights 
they are placed in the same category as black men, white 
women appeal to the anti-black-male racism of white 
patriarchal men. Their argument for “women’s liberation” 
(which for them is synonymous with white women’s 
liberation) thus becomes an appeal to white men to maintain 
the racial hierarchy that grants white women a higher social 
status than black men. 

Whenever black women tried to express to white women their 
ideas about white female racism or their sense that the women 
who were at the forefront of the movement were not 
oppressed women they were told that “oppression cannot be 
measured.” White female emphasis on “common oppression” 
in their appeals to black women to join the movement further 
alienated many black women. Because so many of the white 
women in the movement were employers of non-white and 


195 



white domestics, their rhetoric of common oppression was 
experienced by black women as an assault, an expression of 
the bourgeois woman’s insensitivity and lack of concern for 
the lower class woman’s position in society. 

Underlying the assertion of common oppression was a 
patronizing attitude toward black women. White women were 
assuming that all they had to do was express a desire for 
sisterhood, or a desire to have black women join their groups, 
and black women would be overjoyed. They saw themselves 
as acting in a generous, open, non-racist manner and were 
shocked that black women responded to their overtures with 
anger and outrage. They could not see that their generosity 
was directed at themselves, that it was self-centered and 
motivated 

by their own opportunistic desires. 

Despite the reality that white upper and middle class women 
in America suffer from sexist discrimination and sexist abuse, 
they are not as a group as oppressed as poor white, or black, 
or yellow women. Their unwillingness to distinguish between 
various degrees of discrimination or oppression caused black 
women to see them as enemies. As many upper and middle 
class white feminists who suffer least from sexist oppression 
were attempting to focus all attention on themselves, it 
follows that they would not accept an analysis of woman’s lot 
in America which argued that not all women are equally 
oppressed because some women are able to use their class, 
race, and educational privilege to effectively resist sexist 
oppression. 

Initially, class privilege was not discussed by white women in 
the women’s movement. They wanted to project an image of 


196 



themselves as victims and that could not be done by drawing 
attention to their class. In fact, the contemporary women’s 
movement was extremely class bound. As a group, white 
participants did not denounce capitalism. They chose to 
define liberation using the terms of white capitalist patriarchy, 
equating liberation with gaining economic status and money 
power. Like all good capitalists, they proclaimed work as the 
key to liberation. This emphasis on work was yet another 
indication of the extent to which the white female 
liberationists’ perception of reality was totally narcissistic, 
classist, and racist. Implicit in the assertion that work was the 
key to women’s liberation was a refusal to acknowledge the 
reality that, for masses of American working class women, 
working for pay neither liberated them from sexist oppression 
nor allowed them to gain any measure of economic 
independence. In Liberating Feminism, Benjamin Barber’s 
critique of the women’s movement, he comments on the 
white middle and upper class women’s liberationist focus on 
work: 

Work clearly means something very different to women in 
search of an escape from leisure than it has to most of the 
human race for most of history. For a few lucky men, for far 
fewer women, work has occasionally been a source of 
meaning and creativity. But for most of the rest it remains 
even now forced drudgery in front of the ploughs, machines, 
words or numbers—pushing products, pushing switches, 
pushing papers to eke out the wherewithal of material 
existence. 

...To be able to work and to have work are two different 
matters. I suspect, however, that few liberationist women are 
to be found working as menials and unskilled laborers simply 


197 



in order to occupy their time and identify with the power 
structure. For status and power are not conferred by work per 
se, but by certain kinds of work generally reserved to the 
middle and upper classes.... As Studs Terkel shows in 
Working, most workers find jobs dull, oppressive, frustrating 
and alienating—very much what women find housewifery. 

When white women’s liberationists emphasized work as a 
path to liberation, they did not concentrate their attention on 
those women who are most exploited in the American labor 
force. Had they emphasized the plight of working class 
women, attention would have shifted away from the 
college-educated suburban housewife who wanted entrance 
into the middle and upper class work force. Had attention 
been focused on women who were already working and who 
were exploited as cheap surplus labor in American society, it 
would have de-romanticized the middle class white woman’s 
quest for “meaningful” employment. While it does not in any 
way diminish the importance of women resisting sexist 
oppression by entering the labor force, work has not been a 
liberating force for masses of American women. And for 
some time now, sexism has not prevented them from being in 
the work force. White middle and upper class women like 
those described in Betty Friedan’s The feminine Mystique 
were housewives not because sexism would have prevented 
them from being in the paid labor force, but because they had 
willingly embraced the notion that it was better to be a 
housewife than to be a worker. The racism and classism of 
white women’s liberationists was most apparent whenever 
they discussed work as the liberating force for women. In 
such discussions it was always the middle class “housewife” 
who was depicted as the victim of sexist oppression and not 


198 



the poor black and non-black women who are most exploited 
by American economics. 

Throughout woman’s history as a paid laborer, white 
women workers have been able to enter the work force much 
later than black women yet advance at a much more rapid 
pace. Even though all women were denied access to many 
jobs because of sexist discrimination, racism ensured that the 
lot of the white women would always be better than that of 
the black female worker. Pauli Murray compared the status of 
the two groups in her essay “The Liberation of Black 
Women” and noted: 

When we compare the position of the black woman to that of 
the white woman, we find that she remains single more often, 
bears more children, is in the labor market longer and in 
greater proportion, has less education, earns less, is widowed 
earlier, and carries a relatively heavier economic 
responsibility as family head than her white counterpart. 

Often in discussions of woman’s status in the labor force, 
white women liberationists choose to ignore or minimize the 
disparity between the economic status of black women and 
that of white women. White activist Jo Freeman addresses the 
issue in The Politics of Women’s Liberation when she 
comments that black women have the “highest unemployment 
rates and lowest median income of any race/sex group.” But 
she then minimizes the impact of this assertion in a sentence 
that follows: “Of all race/sex groups of full-time workers, 
non-white women have had the greatest percentage increase 
in their median income since 1939, and white women have 
had the lowest.” Freeman does not inform readers that the 
wages black women received were not a reflection of an 


199 



advancing economic status so much as they were an 
indieation that the wages paid them, for so long eonsiderably 
lower than those paid white women, were approaehing the set 
norm. 

Few, if any, white women liberationists are willing to 
aeknowledge that the women’s movement was eonseiously 
and deliberately struetured to exelude blaek and other 
non-white women and to serve primarily the interests of 
middle and upper elass eollege-edueated white women 
seeking soeial equality with middle and upper elass white 
men. While they may agree that white women involved with 
women’s liberationist groups are raeist and elassist they tend 
to feel that this in no way undermines the movement. But it is 
preeisely the raeism 

and elassism of exponents of feminist ideology that has 
eaused a large majority of blaek women to suspeet their 
motives, and to rejeet active partieipation in any effort to 
organize a women’s movement. Blaek woman aetivist 
Dorothy Bolden, who worked forty-two years as a maid in 
Atlanta, one of the founders of the National Domestie 
Workers, Inc., voiced her opinions of the movement in 
Nobody Speaks for Me! Self Portraits of Working Class 
Women: 

... I was very proud to see them stand up and speak up when 
it started. I’m glad to see any group do that when they’re 
righteous and I know they have been denied something. But 
they’re not talking about the masses of people. You’ve got 
different elasses of people in all phases of life and all raees, 
and those people have to be spoken up for too. 


200 



...You can’t talk about women’s rights until we include all 
women. When you deny one woman of her rights, you deny 
all. I’m getting tired of going to those meetings, because 
there’s none of us participating. 

They’re still trying to put their amendment to the eonstitution, 
but they’re not going to be able to do it until they include us. 
Some of these states know this, that you don’t have all 
women up front supporting that amendment. They are talking 
about women’s rights but whieh women? 

It is often assumed that all blaek women are simply not 
interested in women’s liberation. White women’s 
liberationists have helped to perpetuate the belief that black 
women would rather remain in stereotypically female roles 
than have social equality with men. Yet a Louis Harris 
Virginia Slims poll condueted in 1972 revealed that sixty-two 
pereent of blaek women supported efforts to change woman’s 
status in society as compared to forty-five pereent of white 
women, and that sixty-seven percent of black women were 
sympathetic to women’s liberation groups compared with 
only thirty-five pereent of white women. The findings of the 
Harris poll suggest it is not opposition to feminist ideology 
that has caused black women to rejeet involvement in the 
women’s movement. 

Feminism as a political ideology advoeating soeial equality 
for all women was and is aeeeptable to many black women. 
They rejeeted the women’s movement when it became 
apparent that middle and upper class college-educated white 
women who were its majority participants were determined to 
shape the movement so that it would serve their own 
opportunistie ends. While the established definition of 


201 



feminism is the theory of the political, economic, and social 
equality of the sexes, white women liberationists used the 
power granted them by virtue of their being members of the 
dominant race in American society to interpret feminism in 
such a way that it was no longer relevant to all women. And it 
seemed incredible to black women that they were being asked 
to support a movement whose majority participants were 
eager to maintain race and class hierarchies between women. 

Black women who participated in women’s groups, lectures, 
and meetings initially trusted the sincerity of white female 
participants. Like 19th century black women’s rights 
advocates, they assumed that any women’s movement would 
address issues relevant to all women and that racism would be 
automatically cited as a force that had divided women, that 
would have to be reckoned with for true Sisterhood to 
emerge, and also that no radical revolutionary women’s 
movement could take place until women as a group were 
joined in political solidarity. Although contemporary black 
women were mindful of the prevalence of white female 
racism, they believed it could be confronted and changed. 

As they participated in the women’s movement they found, in 
their dialogues with white women in women’s groups, in 
women’s studies classes, at conferences, that their trust was 
betrayed. They found that white women had appropriated 
feminism to advance their own cause, i.e., their desire to enter 
the mainstream of American capitalism. They were told that 
white women were in the majority and that they had the 
power to decide which issues would be considered “feminist” 
issues. White women liberationists decided that the way to 
confront racism was to speak out in consciousness-raising 
groups about their racist upbringings, to encourage black 


202 



women to join their eause, to make sure they hired one 
non-white woman in “their” women’s studies program, or to 
invite one non-white woman to speak on a diseussion panel at 
“their” eonferenee. 

When blaek women involved with women’s liberation 
attempted to diseuss raeism, many white women responded 
by angrily stating: “We won’t be guilt-tripped.” For them the 
dialogue eeased. Others seemed to relish admitting that they 
were raeist but felt that admitting verbally to being raeist was 
tantamount to ehanging their raeist values. For the most part, 
white women refused to listen when blaek women explained 
that what they expeeted was not verbal admissions of guilt but 
eonseious gestures and aets that would show that white 
women liberationists were anti-raeist and attempting to 
overeome their raeism. The issue of raeism within the 
women’s movement would never have been raised had white 
women shown in their writings and speeehes that they were in 
faet “liberated” from raeism. 

As eoneerned blaek and white individuals tried to stress the 
importanee to the women’s movement of eonfronting and 
ehanging raeist attitudes beeause sueh sentiments threatened 
to undermine the movement, they met with resistanee from 
those white women who saw feminism solely as a vehiele to 
enhanee their own individual, opportunistie ends. 
Conservative, reaetionary white women, who inereasingly 
represented a large majority of the partieipants, were 
outspoken in their pronouneements that the issue of raeism 
should not be eonsidered worthy of attention. They did not 
want the issue of raeism raised beeause they did not want to 
defleet attention away from their projeetion of the white 
woman as “good,” i.e., non-raeist vietim, and the white man 


203 



as “bad,” i.e., racist oppressor. For them to have 
aeknowledged woman’s aetive complieity in the perpetuation 
of imperialism, eolonialism, raeism, or sexism would have 
made the issue of women’s liberation far more eomplex. To 
those who saw feminism solely as a way to demand entranee 
into the white male power strueture, it simplified matters to 
make all men oppressors and all women victims. 

Some blaek women who were interested in women’s 
liberation responded to the raeism of white female 
partieipants by forming separate “blaek feminisf’ groups. 
This response was reaetionary. By creating segregated 
feminist groups, they both endorsed and perpetuated the very 
“raeism” they were supposedly attaeking. They did not 
provide a eritieal evaluation 

of the women’s movement and offer to all women a feminist 
ideology uneorrupted by raeism or the opportunistie desires of 
individual groups. Instead, as eolonized people have done for 
eenturies, they aeeepted the terms imposed upon them by the 
dominant group (in this instanee white women liberationists) 
and struetured their groups on a raeist platform identieal to 
that of the white-dominated groups they were reaeting 
against. White women were aetively exeluded from blaek 
groups. In faet, the distinguishing eharaeteristie of the blaek 
“feminist” group was its foeus on issues relating speeifieally 
to blaek women. The emphasis on black women was made 
publie in the writings of blaek partieipants. The Combahee 
River Colleetive published “A Blaek Feminist Statement” to 
explain their group’s foeus. In their opening paragraph they 
deelared; 

We are a eollective of blaek feminists who have been meeting 
together sinee 1974. During that time we have been involved 


204 



in the process of defining and clarifying our politics, while at 
the same time doing political work within our own group and 
in coalition with other progressive organizations and 
movements. The most general statement of our politics at the 
present time would be that we are actively committed to 
struggling against racial, sexual, heterosexual, and class 
oppression and see as our particular task the development of 
integrated analysis and practice based upon the fact that the 
major systems of oppression are interlocking. The synthesis 
of these oppressions creates the conditions of our lives. As 
black women we see black feminism as the logical political 
movement to combat the manifold and simultaneous 
oppression that all women of color face. 

The emergence of black feminist groups led to a greater 
polarization of black and white women’s liberationists. 
Instead of bonding on the basis of shared understanding of 
woman’s varied collective and individual plight in society, 
they acted as if the distance separating their experiences from 
one another could not be bridged by knowledge or 
understanding. Rather than black women attacking the white 
female attempt to present them as an Other, an unknown, 
unfathomable element, they acted as if they were an Other. 
Many black women found an affirmation and support of their 
concern with feminism in 

all-black groups that they had not experienced in women’s 
groups dominated by white women; this has been one of the 
positive features of black women’s groups. However, all 
women should experience in racially mixed groups 
affirmation and support. Racism is the barrier that prevents 
positive communication and it is not eliminated or challenged 
by separation. White women supported the formation of 
separate groups because it confirmed their preconceived 


205 



racist-sexist notion that no connection existed between their 
experiences and those of black women. Separate groups 
meant they would not be asked to coneern themselves with 
raee or raeism. While blaek women condemned the anti-black 
racism of white women, the mounting animosity between the 
two groups gave rise to overt expression of their anti-white 
racism. Many black women who had never participated in the 
women’s movement saw the formation of separate black 
groups as confirmation of their belief that no alliance could 
ever take plaee between black and white women. To express 
their anger and rage at white women, they evoked the 
negative stereotypieal image of the white woman as a passive, 
parasitic, privileged being living off the labor of others as a 
way to moek and ridicule the white women liberationists. 
Blaek woman Lorraine Bethel published a poem entitled 
“What Chou Mean We, White Girl? Or. The Cullud Lesbian 
Feminist Declaration of Independence” prefaeed with the 
statement: 

I bought a sweater at a yard sale from a white-skinned (as 
opposed to Anglo-Saxon) woman. When wearing it I am 
struck by the smell—it reeks of a soft, privileged life without 
stress, sweat, or struggle. When wearing it I often think to 
myself, this sweater smells of a comfort, a way of being in the 
world I have never known in my life, and never will. It’s the 
same feeling I experience walking through Bonwit Teller’s 
and seeing white-skinned women buying trinkets that eost 
enough to support the elderly Black Woman elevator 
operator, who stands on her feet all day taking them up and 
down, for the rest of her life. It is moments/infinities of 
conscious pain like these that make me want to cry/kill/roll 
my eyes suck my teeth hand on my hip scream at so-called 


206 



radical white lesbians/feminist(s) “WHAT CHOU MEAN 
WE, WHITE GIRL?” 

Animosity between black and white women’s liberationists 
was not due solely to disagreement over racism within the 
women’s movement; it was the end result of years of 
jealousy, envy, competition, and anger between the two 
groups. Conflict between black and white women did not 
begin with the 20th century women’s movement. It began 
during slavery. The social status of white women in America 
has to a large extent been determined by white people’s 
relationship to black people. It was the enslavement of 
Afriean people in colonized America that marked the 
beginning of a ehange in the soeial status of white women. 
Prior to slavery, patriarchal law decreed white women were 
lowly inferior beings, the subordinate group in society. The 
subjugation of black people allowed them to vacate their 
despised position and assume the role of a superior. 

Consequently, it ean be easily argued that even though white 
men institutionalized slavery, white women were its most 
immediate benefieiaries. Slavery in no way altered the 
hierarehical soeial status of the white male but it ereated a 
new status for the white female. The only way that her new 
status could be maintained was through the eonstant assertion 
of her superiority over the black woman and man. All too 
often colonial white women, particularly those who were 
slave mistresses, ehose to differentiate their status from the 
slave’s by treating the slave in a brutal and cruel manner. It 
was in her relationship to the black female slave that the 
white woman could best assert her power. Individual black 
slave women were quick to learn that sex-role differentiation 
did not mean that the white mistress was not to be regarded as 


207 



an authority figure. Because they had been socialized via 
patriarchy to respect male authority and resent female 
authority, black women were reluctant to acknowledge the 
“power” of the white mistress. When the enslaved black 
woman expressed contempt and disregard for white female 
authority, the white mistress often resorted to brutal 
punishment to assert her authority. But even brutal 
punishment could not change the fact that black women were 
not inclined to regard the white female with the awe and 
respect they showed to the white male. 

By flaunting their sexual lust for the bodies of black women 
and their preference for them as sexual partners, white 
men successfully pitted white women and enslaved black 
women against one another. In most instances, the white 
mistress did not envy the black female slave her role as sexual 
object; she feared only that her newly acquired social status 
might be threatened by white male sexual interaction with 
black women. His sexual involvement with black women 
(even if that involvement was rape) in effect reminded the 
white female of her subordinate position in relationship to 
him. For he could exercise his power as racial imperialist and 
sexual imperialist to rape or seduce black women, while white 
women were not free to rape or seduce black men without 
fear of punishment. Though the white female might condemn 
the actions of a white male who chose to interact sexually 
with black female slaves, she was unable to dictate to him 
proper behavior. Nor could she retaliate by engaging in sexual 
relationships with enslaved or free black men. Not 
surprisingly, she directed her anger and rage at the enslaved 
black women. In those cases where emotional ties developed 
between white men and black female slaves, white mistresses 
would go to great lengths to punish the female. Severe 


208 



beatings were the method most white women used to punish 
black female slaves. Often in a jealous rage a mistress might 
use disfigurement to punish a lusted-after black female slave. 
The mistress might cut off her breast, blind an eye, or cut off 
another body part. Such treatment naturally caused hostility 
between white women and enslaved black women. To the 
enslaved black woman, the white mistress living in relative 
comfort was the representative symbol of white womanhood. 
She was both envied and despised—envied for her material 
comfort, despised because she felt little concern or 
compassion for the slave woman’s lot. Since the white 
woman’s privileged social status could only exist if a group of 
women were present to assume the lowly position she had 
abdicated, it follows that black and white women would be at 
odds with one another. If the white woman struggled to 
change the lot of the black slave woman, her own social 
position on the race-sex hierarchy would be altered. 

Manumission did not bring an end to conflicts between black 
and white women; it heightened them. To maintain the 
apartheid structure slavery had institutionalized, white 
colonizers, male and female, created a variety of myths and 
stereotypes to differentiate the status of black women from 
that of white women. White racists and even some black 
people who had absorbed the colonizer’s mentality depicted 
the white woman as a symbol of perfect womanhood and 
encouraged black women to strive to attain such perfection by 
using the white female as her model. The jealousy and envy 
of white women that had erupted in the black woman’s 
consciousness during slavery was deliberately encouraged by 
the dominant white culture. Advertisements, newspaper 
articles, books, etc., were constant reminders to black women 
of the difference between their social status and that of white 


209 



women, and they bitterly resented it. Nowhere was this 
diehotomy as elearly demonstrated as in the materially 
privileged white household where the blaek female domestie 
worked as an employee of the white family. In these 
relationships, blaek women workers were exploited to 
enhanee the soeial standing of white families. In the white 
eommunity, employing domestie help was a sign of material 
privilege and the person who direetly benefited from a 
servant’s work was the white woman, sinee without the 
servant she would have performed domestie ehores. Not 
surprisingly, the blaek female domestie tended to see the 
white female as her “boss,” her oppressor, not the white male 
whose earnings usually paid her wage. 

Throughout Ameriean history white men have deliberately 
promoted hostility and divisiveness between white and blaek 
women. The white patriarehal power strueture pits the two 
groups against eaeh other, preventing the growth of solidarity 
between women and ensuring that woman’s status as a 
subordinate group under patriarehy remains intaet. To this 
end, white men have supported ehanges in the white woman’s 
soeial standing only if there exists another female group to 
assume that role. Consequently, the white patriareh undergoes 
no radieal ehange in his sexist assumption that woman is 
inherently inferior. He neither relinquishes his dominant 
position nor alters the patriarehal strueture of soeiety. He is, 
however, able to eonvinee many white women that 
fundamental ehanges in “woman’s status” have oeeurred 
beeause he has 

sueeessfully soeialized her, via raeism, to assume that no 
eonneetion exists between her and blaek women. 


210 



Because women’s liberation has been equated with gaining 
privileges within the white male power structure, white 
men— and not women, either white or black—have dictated 
the terms by which women are allowed entrance into the 
system. One of the terms male patriarchs have set is that one 
group of women is granted privileges that they obtain by 
actively supporting the oppression and exploitation of other 
groups of women. White and black women have been 
socialized to accept and honor these terms, hence the fierce 
competition between the two groups; a competition that has 
always been centered in the arena of sexual politics, with 
white and black women competing against one another for 
male favor. This competition is part of an overall battle 
between various groups of women to be the chosen female 
group. 

The contemporary move toward feminist revolution was 
continually undermined by competition between various 
factions. In regards to race, the women’s movement has 
become simply another arena in which white and black 
women compete to be the chosen female group. This power 
struggle has not been resolved by the formation of opposing 
interest groups. Such groups are symptomatic of the problem 
and are no solution. Black and white women have for so long 
allowed their idea of liberation to be formed by the existing 
status quo that they have not yet devised a strategy by which 
we can come together. They have had only a slave’s idea of 
freedom. And to the slave, the master’s way of life represents 
the ideal free lifestyle. 

Women’s liberationists, white and black, will always be at 
odds with one another as long as our idea of liberation is 
based on having the power white men have. For that power 


211 



denies unity, denies common connections, and is inherently 
divisive. It is woman’s acceptance of divisiveness as a natural 
order that has caused black and white women to cling 
religiously to the belief that bonding across racial boundaries 
is impossible, to passively accept the notion that the distances 
that separate women are immutable. Even though the most 
uninformed and 

naive women’s liberationist knows that Sisterhood as political 
bonding between women is necessary for feminist revolution, 
women have not struggled long or hard enough to overcome 
the societal brainwashing that has impressed on our psyches 
the belief that no union between black and white women can 
ever be forged. The methods women have employed to reach 
one another across racial boundaries have been shallow, 
superficial, and destined to fail. 

Resolution of the conflict between black and white women 
cannot begin until all women acknowledge that a feminist 
movement which is both racist and classist is a mere sham, a 
cover-up for women’s continued bondage to materialist 
patriarchal principles, and passive acceptance of the status 
quo. The sisterhood that is necessary for the making of 
feminist revolution can be achieved only when all women 
disengage themselves from the hostility, jealousy, and 
competition with one another that has kept us vulnerable, 
weak, and unable to envision new realities. That sisterhood 
cannot be forged by the mere saying of words. It is the 
outcome of continued growth and change. It is a goal to be 
reached, a process of becoming. The process begins with 
action, with the individual woman’s refusal to accept any set 
of myths, stereotypes, and false assumptions that deny the 
shared commonness of her human experience; that deny her 
capacity to experience the Unity of all life; that deny her 


212 



capacity to bridge gaps created by raeism, sexism, or 
elassism; that deny her ability to change. The proeess begins 
with the individual woman’s aeoeptanee that Ameriean 
women, without exeeption, are soeialized to be raeist, elassist, 
and sexist, in varying degrees, and that labeling ourselves 
feminists does not ehange the faet that we must eonseiously 
work to rid ourselves of the legaey of negative soeialization. 

If women want a feminist revolution—ours is a world that is 
erying out for feminist revolution—then we must assume 
responsibility for drawing women together in politieal 
solidarity. That means we must assume responsibility for 
eliminating all the forees that divide women. Raeism is one 
sueh foree. Women, all women, are aeeountable for raeism 
eontinuing to divide us. Our willingness to assume 
responsibility for the elimination of raeism need not be 
engendered by 

feelings of guilt, moral responsibility, vietimization, or rage. 
It ean spring from a heartfelt desire for sisterhood and the 
personal, intelleetual realization that raeism among women 
undermines the potential radiealism of feminism. It ean spring 
from our knowledge that raeism is an obstaele in our path that 
must be removed. More obstaeles are ereated if we simply 
engage in endless debate as to who put it there. 


213 



5 

Black Women and Feminism 


More than a hundred years have passed since the day 
Sojourner Truth stood before an assembled body of white 
women and men at an anti-slavery rally in Indiana and bared 
her breasts to prove that she was indeed a woman. To 
Sojourner, who had traveled the long road from slavery to 
freedom, the baring of her breasts was a small matter. She 
faced her audience without fear, without shame, proud of 
having been born black and female. Yet the white man who 
yelled at Sojourner, “I don’t believe you really are a woman,” 
unwittingly voiced America’s contempt and disrespect for 
black womanhood. In the eyes of the 19th century white 
public, the black female was a creature unworthy of the title 
woman; she was mere chattel, a thing, an animal. When 
Sojourner Truth stood before the second annual convention of 
the women’s rights movement in Akron, Ohio, in 1852, white 
women who deemed it unfitting that a black woman should 
speak on a public platform in their presence screamed: “Don’t 
let her speak! Don’t let her speak! Don’t let her speak!” 
Sojourner endured their protests and became one of the first 
feminists to call their attention to the lot of the black slave 
woman who, compelled by 

circumstance to labor alongside black men, was a living 
embodiment of the truth that women could be the 
work-equals of men. 


214 


It was no mere coincidence that Sojourner Truth was allowed 
on stage after a white male spoke against the idea of equal 
rights for women, basing his argument on the notion that 
woman was too weak to perform her share of manual labor— 
that she was innately the physical inferior to man. Sojourner 
quickly responded to his argument, telling her audience: 

...Well, children, whar dar is so much racket dar must be 
something out o’ kilter. I tink dat ‘twixt de niggers of de Souf 
and de women at de Norf all a talkin ‘bout rights, de white 
men will be in a fix pretty soon. But what’s all dis here talkin’ 
‘bout? Dat man ober dar say dat women needs to be helped 
into carriages, and lifted ober ditches, and to have de best 
places... and ain’t I a woman? Look at me! Look at my 
arm!... I have plowed, and planted, and gathered into barns, 
and no man could head me—and ain’t I a woman? I could 
work as much as any man (when I could get it), and bear de 
lash as well—and ain’t I a woman? I have home five children 
and I seen ’em mos all sold off into slavery, and when I cried 
out with a mother’s grief, none but Jesus hear—and ain’t I a 
woman? 

Unlike most white women’s rights advocates. Sojourner Truth 
could refer to her own personal life experience as evidence of 
woman’s ability to function as a parent; to be the work equal 
of man; to undergo persecution, physical abuse, rape, torture; 
and to not only survive but emerge triumphant. 

Sojourner Truth was not the only black woman to advocate 
social equality for women. Her eagerness to speak publicly in 
favor of women’s rights despite public disapproval and 
resistance paved the way for other politically-minded black 
women to express their views. Sexism and racism have so 


215 



informed the perspective of American historiographers that 
they have tended to overlook and exclude the effort of black 
women in discussions of the American women’s rights 
movement. White female scholars who support feminist 
ideology have also ignored the contribution of black women. 
In contemporary works, like The Remembered Gate: Origins 
of American Feminism by Barbara Berg, Herstory by June 
Sochen, Hidden 

from History by Sheila Rowbothan, The Women’s Movement 
by Barbara Deckard, to name a few, the role black women 
played as advocates for women’s rights in the 19th century is 
never mentioned. Eleanor Flexner’s Century of Struggle, 
which was first published in 1959, remains one of the very 
few book-length historical works on the women’s rights 
movement that documents the participation of black women. 

Most women involved in the recent move toward a feminist 
revolution assume that white women have initiated all 
feminist resistance to male chauvinism in American society, 
and further assume that black women are not interested in 
women’s liberation. While it is true that white women have 
led every movement toward feminist revolution in American 
society, their dominance is less a sign of black female 
disinterest in feminist struggle than an indication that the 
politics of colonization and racial imperialism have made it 
historically impossible for black women in the United States 
to lead a women’s movement. 

Nineteenth century black women were more aware of sexist 
oppression than any other female group in American society 
has ever been. Not only were they the female group most 
victimized by sexist discrimination and sexist oppression, 
their powerlessness was such that resistance on their part 


216 



could rarely take the form of organized colleetive aetion. The 
19th century women’s rights movement could have provided 
a forum for black women to address their grievanees, but 
white female racism barred them from full participation in the 
movement. Furthermore, it served as a grave reminder that 
racism had to be eliminated before black women would be 
recognized as having an equal voice with white women on the 
issue of women’s rights. Women’s organizations and elubs in 
the 19th century were almost always racially segregated, but 
that did not mean that black female participants in such 
groups were any less committed to women’s rights than white 
participants. 

Contemporary historiographers tend to over-emphasize the 
19th century black female’s commitment to eliminating 
racism so as to make it seem that their involvement with 
anti-racist work precluded involvement in women’s rights 
aetivities. An example of this trend can be found in June 
Soehen’s work Herstory, where she discusses white women’s 
organizations in a ehapter titled “The Women’s Movement” 
but discusses black women’s organizations in a ehapter titled 
“Old Problems: Black Americans,” a categorization whieh 
implies that black women’s organizations emerged as part of 
the general effort of black people to end racism, not as part of 
their participation in the women’s movement. Soehen writes: 

Blaek women’s clubs were organized locally to perform 
charitable and educational services. Similar in purpose and 
nature to white women’s clubs, the National Assoeiation of 
Colored Women was formed in 1896 and, led by Mary 
Chureh Terrell (1863-1954), it had more than 100,000 
members in 26 states within four years. While one local 
chapter would be organizing a hospital for blacks, another 


217 



would be developing a kindergarten program for the black 
children of its community. 

One of the first black women to graduate from Oberlin 
College, Mary Church Terrell was an articulate and 
prominent spokeswoman for black Americans’ rights. An 
extraordinary person, she spent her long life working for the 
freedom of black people. She was a good speaker and writer 
for a variety of causes. In addition to heading the NACW, 
Mrs. Terrell campaigned against lynching, became a charter 
member of the NAACP, and worked for the suffrage 
movement as well. She represented black women at many 
national and international meetings. 

From the information provided in these paragraphs, readers 
might easily conclude that Mary Church Terrell was a 
passionate spokesperson for black American rights who was 
not overly concerned with rights for women. This was not so. 
As president of the National Association of Colored Women, 
Mary Church Terrell worked arduously to involve black 
women in the women’s rights struggle. She was particularly 
concerned that they struggle to obtain social equality for their 
sex in the educational sphere. That Mary Church Terrell, like 
most black women’s rights advocates, was also committed to 
uplifting her race as a whole in no way diminished the fact 
that the focus of her attention was on changing the role of 
women in society. Had Terrell considered herself to be a 
spokesperson for the 

black race as a whole she would not have published “A 
Colored Woman in a White World,” a narrative that discussed 
the social status of black women and the impact of racism and 
sexism on their lives. 


218 



No white feminist historian would write about the efforts of 
Lucy Stone, Elizabeth Stanton, Lucretia Mott and others to 
initiate social reforms that would affect primarily white 
women as if their efforts were completely divorced from the 
issue of women’s rights. Yet historians who label themselves 
feminist continually minimize the contribution of black 
women’s rights advocates by implying that their focus was 
solely on racial reform measures. Because of white racial 
imperialism, white women could organize groups like the 
Women’s Christian Temperance Union, Young Women’s 
Christian Association, General Federation of Women’s Clubs, 
without explicitly stating in their heading that these 
organizations were exclusively white. Black women 
identified themselves racially calling their groups Colored 
Women’s League, National Federation of Afro-American 
Women, National Association for Colored Women, and 
because they identified themselves by race scholars assume 
that their interest in the elevation of blacks as a group 
overshadowed their involvement with woman’s effort to 
effect social reform. In fact, black female reform 
organizations were solidly rooted in the women’s movement. 
It was in reaction to the racism of white women and to the 
fact that the U.S. remained a society with an apartheid social 
structure that compelled black women to focus on themselves 
rather than all women. 

Black activist Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin tried to work with 
white women’s organizations and found that black women 
could not depend on racist white women to encourage them to 
fully participate in the women’s reform movement; 
consequently, she demanded that black women organize to 
address issues for themselves. At the First National 


219 



Conference of Colored Women held in Boston in 1895, she 
told her audience: 

The reasons why we should confer are so apparent that it 
would seem hardly necessary to enumerate them, and yet 
there is none of them but demand our serious consideration. 
In the first place we need to feel the cheer and 
inspiration of meeting with each other, we need to gain the 
courage and fresh life that comes from the mingling of 
congenial souls, of those working for the same ends. Next, we 
need to talk over not only those things which are of vital 
importance to us as women, but also the things that are of 
especial interest to us as colored women, the training of our 
children, openings for our boys and girls how they can be 
prepared for occupations and occupations may be found or 
opened for them, what we especially can do in the moral 
education of the race with which we are identified, our mental 
elevation and physical development, the home training it is 
necessary to give our children in order to prepare them to 
meet the peculiar conditions in which they shall find 
themselves, how to make the most of our own, to some extent 
limited opportunities, these are some of our own peculiar 
questions to be discussed. Besides these are the general 
questions of the day, which we cannot afford to be indifferent 
to.... 

Ruffin did not encourage black women’s rights advocates to 
work solely to improve their own lot, she maintained that 
black women needed to organize so that they could lead a 
women’s movement that would address the concerns of all 
women: 


220 



Our woman’s movement is a woman’s movement that is led 
and directed by women for the good of women and men, for 
the benefit of all humanity, which is more than any one 
branch or section of it. We want, we ask the active interest of 
our men, and, too, we are not drawing the color line; we are 
women, American women, as intensely interested in all that 
pertains to us as such as all other American women; we are 
not alienating or withdrawing, we are only coming to the 
front, willing to join any others in the same work and 
cordially inviting and welcoming any others to join us. 

Other black women’s rights advocates echoed Ruffin’s 
sentiments. Despite the fact that white racial imperialism 
excluded black women from participating in groups with 
white women, they remained committed to the belief that 
women’s rights could be attained only if women joined 
together to present a united front. Addressing the World 
Congress of Representative Women, black suffragist Fannie 
Barrier Williams made it known that black women were as 
committed to 

the struggle for women’s rights as any other group of women. 
In her address she voiced the belief that women joined in 
political solidarity would have a tremendous impact on 
American culture: 

The power of organized womanhood is one of the most 
interesting studies of modem sociology. Formerly women 
knew so little of each other mentally, their common interests 
were so sentimental and gossipy, and their knowledge of all 
the larger affairs of human society was so meager that 
organization among them, in the modern sense, was 
impossible. Now their liberal intelligence, their contact in all 
the great interest of education, and their increasing influence 


221 



for good in all the great reformatory movements of the age 
has ereated in them a greater respeet for eaeh other, and 
furnished the elements of organization for large and splendid 
purposes. The highest aseendaney of woman’s development 
has been reaehed when they have beeome mentally strong 
enough to find bonds of assoeiation interwoven with 
sympathy, loyalty, and mutual trustfulness. To-day union is 
the watehword of woman’s onward mareh. 

Although raeial segregation was the norm in women’s 
organizations, reform measures initiated by white and blaek 
women’s groups were not radieally different. They differed 
only in that blaek women ineluded in their reform efforts 
measures that were aimed at solving speeifie problems they 
faeed. One sueh problem was the general tendency among 
white Americans and even some brainwashed blacks to regard 
all black women as sexually immoral, licentious, and 
wanton—a negative stereotype that had its origin in American 
sexist mythology. Consequently, while white women’s 
organizations could concentrate their attentions on general 
reform measures, black women had to launch a campaign to 
defend their “virtue.” As part of their campaign they wrote 
articles and speeches upholding black female sexual morality. 

White women’s organizations could confine their attention to 
issues such as education, charity, or to the formation of 
literary societies, while black women were concerned with 
issues such as poverty, care for the elderly and disabled, or 
prostitution. Black female clubs and organizations were 
potentially 

more feminist and radical in nature than white women’s clubs 
because of the difference in their circumstance created by 
racist oppression. White women as a group did not have to 


222 



launch an attack on prostitution as did black women. Many 
young black women leaving the South and migrating north 
were eompelled to work as prostitutes. In some eases, they 
would eome north on what was ealled a Justiee tieket, 
supplied them by employment ageneies or labor agents. In 
exehange for transportation and the guarantee of a job on 
arrival, blaek women signed eontraets to work where the 
agent plaeed them and agreed to pay a fee equivalent to one 
or two months’ wages. On arriving north they would find 
their jobs were mainly as maids in houses of prostitution. 
Unable to survive on the low salary paid them, they would be 
eneouraged to beeome prostitutes by white “pimps.” The 
National League for the Proteetion of Colored Women was 
formed to inform and aid southern blaek women migrating 
north. In 1897, blaek aetivist Vietoria Earle Matthews formed 
the White Rose Working Girl’s Home and a Blaek Proteetion 
and Women’s Rights Soeiety in the Women’s Loyal Union of 
New York and Brooklyn. To further aequaint the publie with 
the plight of white women, Vietoria Matthews delivered a 
leeture on “The Awakening of the Afro-Ameriean Woman.” 
Her work was not done in isolation. Numerous blaek 
women’s organizations were formed to help blaek women in 
their struggle for self-improvement. 

Of those blaek women who advoeated soeial equality for 
women, Anna Julia Cooper was one of the most outstanding. 
She was one of the first blaek aetivists to urge blaek women 
to artieulate their own experienees and to make the public 
aware of the way in whieh raeism and sexism together 
affeeted their soeial status. Ann Cooper wrote: 

The eolored woman of today oecupies, one might say, a 
unique position in this eountry. In a period of itself 


223 



transitional and unsettled, her status seems one of the 
ascertainable and definitive of all the forces which makes for 
our civilization. She is confronted by a woman question and a 
race problem, and is as yet an unknown or unacknowledged 
factor in both. 

Anna Cooper wanted the U.S. public to recognize the role 
black women played not just as spokespersons for their race 
but as advocates of rights for women. To spread her views on 
women’s rights, she published A Voice from the South in 
1892, one of the first feminist discussions of the social status 
of black women and a lengthy discussion of woman’s right to 
higher education. In A Voice from the South, Cooper 
reiterated her belief that black women should not assume a 
passive subordinate position in relationship to black men. She 
also criticized black males for their refusal to support 
woman’s effort to obtain equal rights. Since it was common 
for black leaders to question whether or not black female 
involvement in the struggle for women’s rights would 
undermine their involvement in the struggle to eliminate 
racism. Cooper maintained that social equality of the sexes 
would mean that black women would be able to serve as 
leaders in the struggle against racism. She further argued that 
they had in fact shown themselves to be as committed to the 
black liberation struggle as black men, if not more so. 

Included in A Voice from the South was an essay by Cooper 
on “The Higher Education of Women” in which she argued 
that women as a collective group should have the right to 
acquire higher education. Like many modern-day feminists. 
Cooper believed in the existence of a distinct “feminine 
principle” and argued that “a great want of the world in the 
past has been a feminine force,” a force which could have “its 


224 



full effect only through the untrammelled development of 
women.” 

All I claim is that there is a feminine as well as a masculine 
side to truth; that these are related not as inferior and superior, 
not as better and worse, not as weaker and stronger, but as 
complements—complements in one necessary and symmetric 
whole. That as the man is more noble in reason, so the woman 
is more quick in sympathy. That as he is indefatigable in 
pursuit of abstract truth, so is she in caring for the interests by 
the way— striving tenderly and lovingly that not one of the 
least of these “little ones” should perish. That while we not 
unfrequently see women who reason, we say, with the 
coolness and precision of a man, and men as considerate of 
helplessness as a woman, still there is a general consensus of 
mankind that one trait is essentially masculine and the 
other is peculiarly feminine. That both are needed to be 
worked into the training of children, in order that boys may 
supplement their virility by tenderness and sensibility, and 
our girls may round out their gentleness by strength and 
self-reliance. That, as both are alike necessary in giving 
symmetry to the individual, so a nation or a race will 
degenerate into mere emotionalism on the one hand, or 
bullying on the other, if dominated by either exclusively; 
lastly, and most emphatically, that the feminine factor can 
have its proper effect only through woman’s development and 
education so that she may fitly and intelligently stamp her 
force on the forces of her day, and add her modicum to the 
riches of the world’s thought.... 

Even though Anna Cooper, like other 19th century women’s 
rights advocates, continued to believe that woman could best 
serve her country by using education to enhance the sex role 


225 



assigned her by patriarehy, she was aware that higher 
edueation would also enable women to explore worlds outside 
the traditional realm of home and family. To answer those 
who argued that higher edueation interfered with marriage, 
Cooper replied: 

I grant you that intelleetual development, with the 
self-relianee and eapaeity for earning a livelihood whieh it 
gives, renders woman less dependent on the marriage relation 
for physieal support (whieh, by the way, does not always 
aeeompany it). Neither is she eompelled to look to sexual 
love as the one sensation eapable of giving tone and relish, 
movement and vim to the life she lives. Her horizon is 
extended. Her sympathies are broadened and deepened and 
multiplied. She is in eloser toueh with nature.... 

Nineteenth eentury blaek women believed that were they 
given the right to vote, they eould ehange the edueational 
system so that women would have the right to pursue fully 
their edueational goals. To aehieve this end they 
wholeheartedly supported woman suffrage. Blaek woman 
aetivist Franees Ellen Watkins Harper was more outspoken on 
the subjeet of woman suffrage than any other blaek woman of 
her day. In 1888 she addressed the International Couneil of 
Women in Washington and spoke on the importanee of 
suffrage to blaek and white women. At the Columbian 
Exposition in Chieago in 1893 she delivered an 
address titled “Woman’s Politieal Euture” expressing her 
views on suffrage: 

I do not believe in unrestrieted and universal suffrage for 
either men or women. I believe in moral and edueational tests. 
I do not believe that the most ignorant and brutal man is better 


226 



prepared to add value to the strength and durability of the 
government than the most eultured, upright, and intelligent 
woman.... The ballot in the hands of woman means power 
added to influenee. How well she will use that power I can 
not foretell. Great evils stare us in the face that need to be 
throttled by the combined power of an upright manhood and 
an enlightened womanhood; and I know that no nation can 
gain its full measure of enlightenment and happiness if 
one-half of it is free and the other half is fettered. China 
compressed the feet of her women and thereby retarded the 
steps of her men. 

Mary Church Terrell was yet another black female activist 
who lobbied in support of woman suffrage. In 1912, she 
addressed the National America Woman’s Suffrage 
Association, of which she was a member on two occasions, 
speaking in support of woman suffrage. Terrell was also 
active in the movement to stop the lynching of black people. 
Her article “Lynching from a Negro’s Point of View” was 
published in the 1904 issue of the North American Review, 
and it was in this essay that she first appealed to white women 
to involve themselves in the anti-lynching crusade. Terrell 
believed that white women acted as the accomplices of white 
men at lynchings, and she placed a measure of the 
responsibility for racism and racial oppression on their 
shoulders: 

Lynching is the aftermath of slavery. The white men who 
shoot negroes to death and flay them alive, and the white 
women who apply flaming torches to their oil-soaked bodies 
today, are the sons and daughters of women who had but 
little, if any, compassion on the race when it was enslaved. 
The men who lynch negroes to-day are, as a rule, the children 


227 



of women who sat by their firesides happy and proud in the 
possession and affeetion of their own ehildren, while they 
looked with unpitying eye and adamantine heart upon the 
anguish of slave mothers whose ehildren had been sold away, 
when not overtken by a sadder fate.... It is too mueh to expeet 
perhaps, that the 

ehildren of women who for generations looked upon the 
hardships and the degradation of their sisters of a darker hue 
with few if any protests, should have merey and eompassion 
upon the ehildren of that oppressed raee now. But what a 
tremendous infiuenee for law and order, and what a mighty 
foe to mob violence Southern white women might be, if they 
would arise in the purity and power of their womanhood to 
implore their fathers, husbands and sons no longer to stain 
their hands with the black man’s blood!... 

Terrell’s appeal to white women to bond with black women 
on the basis of shared womanhood was a reiteration of the 
sentiments of many 19th century black women who were 
convinced that women could be a new political force in the 
U.S. 

Despite racist and sexist oppression, the latter part of the 19th 
century was an important era in black woman’s history. 
Frances Ellen Watkins Harper was gloriously right when she 
exclaimed, “If the fifteenth century discovered America to the 
Old World, the nineteenth is discovering woman to herself.” 
The fervor over women’s rights generated in the 19th century 
continued in the 20th century and culminated in the ratifiction 
of the Nineteenth Amendment in August 1920 which granted 
all women the right to vote. In their struggle to win the vote, 
black women had learned a bitter lesson. They found as they 
worked for suffrage that many whites saw granting women 


228 



the right to vote as yet another way to maintain the oppressive 
system of white racial imperialism. Southern white suffragists 
rallied around a platform that argued that woman suffrage in 
the South would strengthen white supremacy. Even though 
woman suffrage would also grant black women the right to 
vote, in the south white women outnumbered them by two to 
one. In The Emancipation of the American Woman, Andrew 
Sinclair discusses the racial politics of white women 
suffragists and concludes: 

The undisguised racism of the Southern suffragists such as 
Kate Gordon and Eaura Clay—two of the most powerful 
officers in the National American Association after 
Anthony’s retirement—worried the suffragists from the North 
and the West. Although Carrie Catt and Anna Shaw had to be 
diplomatic to gain some Southern support for suffrage, they 
lost the crusading spirit of the old 

abolitionists.... The vocabulary of the movement changed 
from the language of human rights to that of expediency. 
Negro women in the North were excluded from some suffrage 
parades, for fear of offending the South. As one Negro leader 
wrote to another about the suffragists, “All of them are 
mortally afraid of the South and if they could get the Suffrage 
Amendment through without enfranchising coloured women, 
they would do it in a moment.” 

The language of the Northern suffrage leaders, even that of 
Elizabeth Stanton, increasingly shifted towards the expedient 
of educated suffrage for women.... The promise of the 
American Revolution in terms of human equality and liberty 
was forgotten in an effort to win the vote for a limited number 
of white, Anglo-Saxon women, in the same way that the 


229 



terms of the Constitution had onee denied the prineiples of the 
Declaration of Independence. 

As in the 19th century struggle over the issue of woman 
suffrage, in the 20th century struggle, race and sex became 
interlocking issues. Like their predecessors, white women 
consciously and deliberately supported white racial 
imperialism, openly disavowing feelings of empathy and 
political solidarity with black people. In their efforts to secure 
the ballot, white women’s rights advocates willingly betrayed 
the feminist belief that voting was the natural right of every 
woman. Their willingness to compromise feminist principles 
allowed the patriarchal power structure to co-opt the energy 
of women suffragists and use the votes of women to 
strengthen the existing anti-woman political structure. The 
great majority of white women did not use their voting 
privileges to support women’s issues; they voted as their 
husbands, fathers, or brothers voted. The more militant white 
suffragists had hoped that women would use the vote to form 
their own party rather than supporting major parties that 
denied women social equality with men. Voting privileges for 
women changed in no fundamental way the lot of women in 
society, but they did enable women to help support and 
maintain the existing white racist imperialist patriarchal social 
order. To a very grave extent women obtaining the right to 
vote was more a victory for racist principles than a triumph of 
feminist principles. 

Black female suffragists found that the vote had little impact 
on their social status. The most militant wing of the 
1920s women’s movement, the National Woman’s Party, was 
both racist and classist. Even though the party pledged to 
work for full equality for women, it actively worked to 


230 



promote solely the interests of white middle and upper class 
women. In Her story, June Sochen makes this comment on 
the attitude of white suffragists toward black women: 

After the woman’s suffrage amendment was passed in 1920, 
some reformers wondered whether it would benefit black 
women as well as white women—especially in the South 
where black men had been virtually disenfranchised by the 
white power-holders. Over two million newly enfranchised 
black women lived in the South. When suffragists suggested 
to Alice Paul that the voting rights of black women would be 
a continuing vital issue, she replied that the year 1920 was not 
the time to discuss that question. Rather, she said, the 
suffragists should enjoy their new political power and make 
plans for other battles in the future. Yet as the reformers had 
foreseen, when black women went to the polls in Alabama or 
Georgia, they found that white election officials had a bag of 
tricks ready to prevent them from voting. If a black woman 
could read a complicated text put before her, the white official 
would find some other obscure reason why she was ineligible 
to vote. And any woman who persisted was threatened with 
violence if she did not obediently slink away. 

When women suffrage failed to alter in any way the social 
status of black women, many black female suffragists became 
disillusioned with women’s rights. They had supported 
woman suffrage only to find their interests betrayed, only to 
find that “woman suffrage” would be used as a weapon to 
strengthen white oppression of black people. They found that 
obtaining rights for women would have little impact on their 
social status as long as white racial imperialism automatically 
denied them full citizenship. While white women were 
rejoicing over obtaining the right to vote, a system of racial 


231 



apartheid was being institutionalized throughout the U.S. that 
would threaten the freedom of black women far more 
crucially than sexual imperialism. That system of racial 
apartheid was called Jim Crow. In The Strange Career of Jim 
Crow, C. Vann Woodward describes this resurgence of 
racism: 

In the postwar era there were new indications that the 
Southern Way was spreading as the American Way in race 
relations. The great migration of the Negro into the residential 
slum areas and the industrial plants of the big northern cities 
increased tension between races. Northern labor was jealous 
of its status and resentful of the competition of Negroes, who 
were excluded from unions. Negroes were pushed out of the 
more desirable jobs in industries that they had succeeded in 
invading during the manpower shortage of the war years. 
They were squeezed out of federal employment more and 
more. Negro postmen began to disappear from their old routes 
as they did from the police beats. They began to lose their 
grip upon crafts such as that of the barbers, which had once 
been a virtual monopoly in the South. 

Racism in regimented form was spread over the whole 
country in the ‘twenties by the new Ku Klux Klan.... 

There was no apparent tendency toward abatement or 
relaxation of the Jim Crow code of discrimination and 
segregation in the 1920’s, and none in the ‘thirties until well 
along in the depression years. In fact the Jim Crow laws were 
elaborated and further expanded in those years. Much social 
and economic history is reflected in the new laws. When 
women began to bob their hair and became patrons of the 
barber shops, Atlanta passed an ordinance in 1926 forbidding 


232 



Negro barbers to serve women or children under fourteen 
years of age. Jim Crow kept step with the march of progress 
in transportation and industry, as well as with the changes in 
fashion. 

As Jim Crow apartheid threatened to strip black people of the 
rights and achievements they had acquired during 
Reconstruction, it was only natural that black female activists 
ceased to struggle over women’s rights issues and 
concentrated their energies on resisting racism. 

Black women activists were not the only group of women to 
shift their attention away from women’s rights issues. 
Because much of the energy of female activists had focused 
on the vote, once it was obtained many women saw no further 
need for a women’s movement. Although white women in the 
Woman’s Party continued feminist struggle, black women 
were rarely active participants. Their energies were focused 
on resisting mounting racial oppression. While white 
women’s rights 

advocates struggled in 1933 to get the Senate to pass the 
Equal Rights Amendment, black women activists were 
fighting to prevent the lynching of black women and men by 
mobs of white racists, to improve the conditions of masses of 
poverty-stricken black people, and to provide educational 
opportunities. In the 20s and 30s, black female activists 
appealed to the masses of black women not to let sexism 
prevent them from being as involved as black men in the 
struggle to free black people. Amy Jacques Garvey, active in 
the black nationalist movement led by her co-worker and 
husband Marcus Garvey, edited the woman’s page in Negro 
World, the newspaper publication of the Universal Negro 
Improvement Association. In her articles she urged black 


233 



women to focus their attention on black nationalism and 
participate equally in the black liberation struggle. 

The exigencies of this present age require that women take 
their places beside their men. White women are rallying all 
their forces and united regardless of national boundaries to 
save their race from destruction, and preserve its ideals for 
posterity.... White men have begun to realize that as women 
are the backbone of the home, so can they, by their economic 
experience and their aptitude for details participate effectively 
in guiding the destiny of nation and race. 

No line of endeavor remains closed for long to the modem 
woman. She agitates for equal opportunities and gets them; 
she makes good on the job and gains the respect of men who 
heretofore opposed her. She prefers to be a bread-winner than 
a half-starved wife at home. She is not afraid of hard work 
and by being independent she gets more out of the 
present-day husband than her grandmother did in the good old 
days. 

The women of the East, both yellow and black, are slowly, 
but surely imitating the women of the Western world, and as 
the white women are bolstering up a decaying white 
civilization, even so women of the darker races are sallying 
forth to help their men establish a civilization according to 
their own standards, and to strive for world leadership. 

Even though black women leaders urged black women to 
assume as active a role as black men in the stmggle to end 
racism, underlying their call for action was the assumption 
that social equality of the sexes was a secondary 
consideration. 


234 



From the beginning of the women’s rights movement, its 
stauneh supporters had argued that social equality for women 
was a necessary step for patriotic nation-building. They 
stressed that women were not opposing the U.S. political or 
social order, but simply wanted to actively support the 
existing system of government. This attitude always 
threatened the occasional political solidarity that existed 
between black and white women’s rights activists. To white 
women, full participation in the growth of the U.S. as a nation 
often included acceptance and support of white racial 
imperialism, while black women, even those who were most 
politically conservative, were often obliged to denounce the 
nation because of its racist policies. Eventually both groups of 
women allowed racial alliances to supersede feminist 
struggle. Racial segregation remained the norm in most 
women’s organizations and clubs in the 30s and 40s. From 
1940 to 1960, most women’s groups did not emphasize 
women’s liberation; women bonded together for social or 
professional reasons. Barbara Deckard, author of The 
Women’s Movement, contends that there was no organized 
women’s liberation movement from 1940 to 1960 and gave as 
an explanation these reasons: 

One reason was the limited ideology and elite class base of 
the suffragists. So strongly had they emphasized the vote, and 
only the vote, that their successors—like the League of 
Women Voters—could declare in the 1920’s that there was 
no more discrimination against women and that liberal 
women should merely fight for general reforms for all people. 
The sole successor to the most militant suffragists—the 
Women’s Party—was narrow in other ways. It continued to 
fight for equal legal rights but paid little or no attention to 
women’s inferior position in the family, to the exploitation of 


235 



women workers, or to the speeial problems of blaek women. 
This laek of interest in the major soeial, eeonomie, and raeial 
issues alienated radieal women, while the hostile soeial 
atmosphere prevented them from winning over the moderate 
women. 

By the mid-1920’s, the relative stability of eapitalism, the 
disappearanee of the small radieal farmer, the red-baiting and 
the internal splits, destroyed the Soeialist and Progressive 
parties and brought a period of eonservatism hostile to the 
women’s movement. The radiealism of the 
1930’s eoneentrated on unemployment and, in the late 1930’s, 
on the threat of war with faseism to the praetieal exelusion of 
all other issues. Again, during the war other issues eould not 
be raised. The postwar 1946-1960 period was a time of U.S. 
eeonomie expansion and world dominanee, of the eold war 
and super-patriotism ensured by the witeh hunting of 
MeCarthyism. All radieal and liberal groups suffered 
repression; and possible women’s liberation eauses—sueh as 
ehild eare—were smothered with the rest. 

In the forty years from the mid-1920s to the mid-1960s blaek 
female leaders no longer advoeated women’s rights. The 
struggle for blaek liberation and the struggle for women’s 
liberation were seen as inimieal largely beeause blaek eivil 
rights leaders did not want the white Ameriean publie to see 
their demands for full eitizenship as synonymous with a 
radieal demand for equality of the sexes. They made blaek 
liberation synonymous with gaining full partieipation in the 
existing patriarehal nation-state and their demands were for 
the elimination of raeism, not eapitalism or patriarehy. Just as 
white women had publiely disavowed any politieal 
eonneetion with blaek people when they believed that sueh an 


236 



alliance was inimical to their interests, black women 
disassociated themselves from feminist struggle when they 
were convinced that to appear feminist, i.e. radical, would 
hurt the cause of black liberation. Black men and women 
wanted entrance into the mainstream of American life. To 
gain that entrance they felt it was necessary for them to be 
conservative. 

Black women’s organizations, which at one time had 
concentrated on social services like child care, homes for 
working women and help for prostitutes, became 
de-politicized and focused more on social affairs like 
debutante balls and fundraisers. Black women club members 
imitated the behavior of middle class white women. Those 
black women who believed in social equality of the sexes 
learned to suppress their opinions for fear attention might be 
shifted from racial issues. They believed they should first 
support freedom for black people, then later, when that 
freedom was obtained, work for women’s rights. 

Unfortunately, they did not foresee the strength of black 
male resistance to the idea that women should have equal 
status with men. 

When the Civil Rights Movement began, black women 
participated but they did not strive to overshadow black male 
leaders. When the movement ended, the U.S. public 
remembered the names of Martin Luther King, Jr., A. Phillip 
Randolph, and Roy Wilkins but forgot the names of Rosa 
Parks, Daisy Bates and Fannie Lou Hamer. The 50s leaders of 
the black civil rights movement, like their 19th century 
predecessors, made it known that they were eager to establish 
communities and families using the same pattern as whites. 
Following the example of white male patriarchs, black men 


237 



were obsessively concerned with asserting their masculinity 
while black women imitated the behavior of white women 
and were obsessive about femininity. An obvious change took 
place in black sex-role patterns. Black people no longer 
passively accepted that racial oppression has always forced 
the black female to be as independent and hardworking as 
black men; they were demanding that she be more passive, 
subordinate, and preferably unemployed. 

The 50s socialization of black women to assume a more 
subordinate role in relation to black men occurred as part of 
an overall effort in the U.S. to brainwash women so as to 
reverse the effects of World War II. As a result of the war, 
white and black women had been compelled to be 
independent, assertive, and hardworking. White men, like 
black men, wanted to see all women be less assertive, 
dependent, and unemployed. Mass media was the weapon 
used to destroy the new-found independence of women. 
White and black women alike were subjected to endless 
propaganda which encouraged them to believe that a 
woman’s place was in the home—that her fulfillment in life 
depended on finding the right man to marry and producing a 
family. If women were compelled by circumstance to work, 
they were told that it was better if they didn’t compete with 
men and confined themselves to jobs like teaching and 
nursing. 

The working woman, be she black or white, found it 
necessary to prove her femininity. Often she developed two 
demeanors: though she might be assertive and independent on 
the job, at home she was passive and pleasing. More than ever 
before in U.S. history, black women were obsessed with 
pursuing the ideal of femininity described on television, in 


238 



books and magazines. An emerging black middle class meant 
that groups of black females had more money than ever 
before to spend buying fashions, cosmetics, or reading 
magazines like McCall’s and Ladies Home Journal. Masses 
of black women who at one time were proud of their ability to 
work outside the home and yet be good housewives and 
mothers became discontented with their lot. They wanted 
only to be housewives and expressed openly their rage and 
hostility toward black men—a hostility that emerged because 
they were convinced black men were not striving hard enough 
to assume the role of sole economic provider in the home so 
that they could be housewives. Popular sayings of the time 
like “a black man ain’t shit,” “the nigger ain’t no good,” were 
expressions of black female contempt for black men. 

Clearly black women wanted to be in a position to fully 
participate in the 50s pursuit of “idealized femininity” and 
resented black men for not aiding them in this quest. They 
measured black men against a standard set by white males. 
Since whites defined “achieving manhood” as the ability of a 
man to be a sole economic provider in a family, many black 
females tended to regard the black male as a “failed” man. In 
retaliation, black men openly asserted that they perceived 
white women as more feminine than black women. Both 
black females and males were uncertain about their 
womanhood and manhood. They were both striving to adapt 
themselves to standards set by the dominant white society. 
When black women failed for whatever reason to assume a 
passive subordinate role in relationship to black men, the men 
became angry. When black men failed to assume the role of 
sole economic provider in the home, black women were 
angry. 


239 



The tensions and eonfliets that emerged in blaek male/female 
relationships were dramatized by the 1959 produetion of 
Lorraine Hansberry’s award-winning play A Raisin in the 
Sun. Conflict prevails in the black male Walter Lee’s 
relationship to his mother and wife. In one scene, as Walter 
tells his wife Ruth how he intends to spend his mother’s 
insurance money, she refuses to listen; he becomes angry and 
yells: 

Walter: That is just what is wrong with the colored woman in 
this world... don’t understand about building their men up 
and making ’em feel like they somebody. Like they can do 
something. 

Ruth: There are colored men who do things. 

Walter: No thanks to the colored woman. 

Ruth: Well, being a colored woman, I guess I can’t help 
myself none. 

Walter: We one group of men tied to a race of women with 
small minds. 

The mother in Raisin in the Sun is the dominant figure in the 
home and Walter Lee complains endlessly that she thwarts his 
assertion of his manhood, that she is a tyrant who forcibly 
bends him to her will. In the course of the play, Walter Lee is 
portrayed as irresponsible and unworthy of his mother’s trust 
and respect. She does not respect his assertion of manhood 
because he acts in an immature manner. However, at the end 
of the play when he acts in a responsible manner, the mother 
automatically assumes a subordinate position. The message of 


240 



the play was twofold. On the one hand, it portrayed the 
strength and self-saerificing nature of the single black mother 
working to ensure the survival of her family, and on the other 
hand, it stressed the importance of the black male assuming 
his proper place as patriarch in the home. The mother’s way 
of life is a thing of the past. Walter Lee and Ruth are 
harbingers of the future. The future black family they portray 
is the two-parent nuclear set-up wherein man assumes a 
patriarchal role, the role of decision maker, protector, and 
upholder of family pride and honor. 

Lorraine Hansberry’s play was a foretelling of future conflicts 
between black women and men over the issue of sex-role 
patterns. This conflict was exaggerated and brought to public 
attention by the 1965 publication of Danial Moynihan’s report 
The Negro Family: The Case for National Action. In his 
report Moynihan argued that the black American family was 
being undermined by female dominance. He claimed that 
racist discrimination against black men in the work force 
caused black 

families to have a matriarchal structure which he asserted was 
out of line with the white American norm, the patriarchal 
family structure, and that this prevented the black race from 
being accepted into the mainstream of American life. 
Moynihan’s message was similar to that of black women who 
admonished black men for not assuming the patriarchal role. 
The difference in the two perspectives was that Moynihan 
placed a measure of the responsibility for the black male’s 
inability to assume a patriarchal role on black women, 
whereas black women felt that racism and black male 
indifference were the forces that caused black men to reject 
the role of sole economic provider. 


241 



By labeling black women matriarchs, Moynihan implied that 
those black women who worked and headed households were 
the enemies of black manhood. Even though Moynihan’s 
supposition that the black family was matriarchal was based 
on data that showed that only one-fourth of all black families 
in America were female-headed households, he used this 
figure to make generalizations about black families as a 
whole. His generalizations about black family structure, 
though erroneous, had a tremendous impact upon the black 
male psyche. Like the American white male in the 50s and 
60s, black men were concerned that all women were 
becoming too assertive and domineering. 

The notion that modem women were emasculating men had 
its origin not in the conflict between black women and black 
men over sex-role patterns but in the overall conflict in 
American society over the issue of sex roles. Women as 
castrator was an image first evoked not in reference to black 
women and certainly not by Daniel Moynihan; it was 
popularized by certain psychoanalysts who had their heyday 
in the 50s. They imposed upon the consciousness of the 
American public the notion that any career woman, any 
woman who competed with men, was envious of male power 
and was likely to be a castrating bitch. 

Black women came to be depicted as female castrators par 
excellence, though not because they were inherently more 
assertive and independent than white women. History shows 
that 

white women were actively competing in the male-dominated 
power stmcture long before black women because there was 
no racial barrier to make entrance into that sphere completely 
impossible. Black women became the target for many 


242 



misogynist attacks on female independenee largely beeause of 
raeist seapegoating. Just as the 19th century white publie had 
portrayed blaek women as embodying all negative traits that 
were usually attributed to the female sex as a whole while 
portraying white women as embodying all positive traits, the 
20th eentury white publie eontinued this praetiee. They 
idealized and elevated the status of the white female group by 
debasing and degrading the blaek female group. Daniel 
Moynihan did not attempt to doeument the faet that the 
so-ealled “matriarehal” role blaek women assumed in the 
female-headed household was the same as the one white 
women assumed in the female-headed household. Instead, he 
eontinued to perpetuate one of the United States’ most 
popular sexist-raeist myths about blaek womanhood—the 
myth that blaek women are inherently more assertive, 
independent, and domineering than white women. 

Sexist ideology was the eore of the matriarehy myth. Implieit 
in the assertion that blaek women were matriarehs was the 
assumption that patriarehy should be maintained at all eosts 
and that the subordination of the female was neeessary for the 
healthy aehievement of manhood. In effeet, Moynihan 
suggested that the negative effeets of raeist oppression of 
blaek people eould be eliminated if blaek females were more 
passive, subservient and supportive of patriarehy. Onee again, 
woman’s liberation was presented as inimieal to blaek 
liberation. 

The extent to whieh blaek men absorbed this ideology was 
made evident in the 60s blaek liberation movement. Blaek 
male leaders of the movement made the liberation of blaek 
people from raeist oppression synonymous with their gaining 
the right to assume the role of patriareh, of sexist oppressor. 


243 



By allowing white men to dietate the terms by whieh they 
would define blaek liberation, blaek men ehose to endorse 
sexist exploitation and oppression of blaek women. And in so 
doing they were eompromised. They were not liberated from 
the system but liberated to serve the system. The movement 
ended and the system had not ehanged; it was no less raeist or 
sexist. 

Like blaek men, many blaek women believed blaek liberation 
eould only be aehieved by the formation of a strong blaek 
patriarehy. Many of the blaek women interviewed in Inez 
Smith Reid’s book Together Blaek Women, published in 
1972, openly stated that they felt the role of the female should 
be a supportive one and that the male ought to be the 
dominant figure in all blaek liberation struggles. Typieal 
blaek female responses were: 

I think the woman should be behind the man. The man should 
be up first before the woman beeause Blaek woman has been 
over Blaek man through time in this eountry. Through no 
fault of their own they aequired better jobs and better status. 
They weren’t equal to the White men and women but they 
were above Blaek men. And now that the revolution is taking 
plaee soeially I think Blaek women shouldn’t be foremost in 
the life. I think it should be Blaek men ‘eause men represent 
the symbol of the raees. 

or: 

I think a Blaek female ean be one of the greatest assets in the 
revolution or in the struggle. I think blaek women have a 
history of perseveranee and strength. I would not like to see 
that strength turn into domineering tendencies or bossism but 


244 



I do think we can be that silent strength that the Black man 
needs to fight the battle for his wife or his woman and his 
family. 

A large number of black women, many who were young, 
college-educated, and middle class, were seduced in the 60s 
and 70s by the romanticized concept of idealized womanhood 
first popularized during the Victorian age. They stressed that 
woman’s role was that of a helpmate to her man. And for the 
first time in the history of black civil rights movements, black 
women did not struggle equally with black men. Writing of 
the 60s black movement in Black Macho and the Myth of the 
Superwoman, Michelle Wallace comments: 

Misogyny was an integral part of Black Macho. Its 
philosophy, which maintained that black men had been more 
oppressed than black women, that black women had, in fact, 
contributed to that oppression, that black men were sexually 
and morally superior and also exempt from most 
of the responsibilities human beings had to other human 
beings, could only be detrimental to black women. But black 
women were determined to believe—even as their own guts 
were telling them it was not so—that they were finally on the 
verge of liberation from the spectre of the omnipotent blonde 
with the rosebud lips and the cheese-cake legs. They would 
no longer have to admire another woman on the pedestal. The 
pedestal would be theirs. They would no longer have to do 
their own fighting. They would be fought for. The knight in 
white armor would ride for them. The beautiful fairy princess 
would be black. 

The women of the Black Movement had little sense of the 
contradictions in their desire to be models of fragile Victorian 


245 



womanhood in the midst of revolution. They wanted a house, 
a picket fence around it, a chicken in the pot, and a man. As 
they saw it, their only officially designated revolutionary 
responsibility was to have babies. 

Not all black women succumbed to the sexist brainwashing 
that was so much a part of black liberation rhetoric, but those 
who did not received no attention. People in the U.S. were 
fascinated with the image of the black female—strong, fierce, 
and independent—meekly succumbing to a passive role, in 
fact longing to be in a passive role. 

Although Angela Davis became a female heroine of the 60s 
movement, she was admired not for her political commitment 
to the Communist party, not for any of her brilliant analyses 
of capitalism and racial imperialism, but for her beauty, for 
her devotion to black men. The American public was not 
willing to see the “political” Angela Davis; instead they made 
of her a poster pinup. In general, black people did not approve 
of her communism and refused to take it seriously. Wallace 
writes of Angela Davis: 

For all her achievements, she was seen as the epitome of the 
selfless, sacrificing “good woman”—the only kind of black 
woman the Movement would accept. She did it for her man, 
they said. A woman in a womans place. The so-called 
political issues were irrelevant. 

Contemporary black women who supported patriarchal 
dominance placed their submission to the status quo in the 
context of racial politics and argued that they were willing to 
accept a subordinate role in relationship to black men for the 
good of the race. They were indeed a new generation of black 


246 



females—a generation that had been brainwashed not by 
blaek revolutionaries but by white soeiety, by the media, to 
believe that woman’s plaee was in the home. They were the 
first generation of black women to face competition with 
white women for the attention of black men. Many of them 
accepted black male sexism solely because they were afraid 
of being alone, of not having male companions. The fear of 
being alone, or of being unloved, had caused women of all 
races to passively accept sexism and sexist oppression. There 
was nothing unique or new about the black woman’s 
willingness to accept the sexist-defined female role. The 60s 
black movement simply became a background in which their 
acceptance of sexism, or patriarchy, could be announced to 
the white public that was so convinced that black women 
were more likely to be assertive and domineering than white 
women. 

Contrary to popular opinion, the sexual politics of the 50s 
socialized black women to conform to sexist-defined role 
patterns—not the black macho of the 70s. Black mothers of 
the 50s had taught their daughters that they should not be 
proud to work, that they should educate themselves in case 
they did not find that man who would be the most important 
force in their lives, who would provide for and protect them. 
With such a legacy it was not surprising that college-educated 
black women were embracing patriarchy. The 60s black 
movement simply exposed a support of sexism and patriarchy 
that already existed in the black community—it did not create 
it. Writing of the black woman’s response to the 60s civil 
rights struggle, Michelle Wallace comments: 

The black woman never really dealt with the primary issues 
of the Black movement. She stopped straightening her hair. 


247 



She stopped using tighteners and brighteners. She forced 
herself to be submissive and passive. She preached to her 
children about the glories of the black man. But then, 
suddenly, the Black movement was over. Now she has begun 
to straighten her hair again, to follow the latest fashions in 
Vogue and Mademoiselle, to rouge her cheeks furiously, and 
to speak, not infrequently, of what a disappointment 
the black man has been. She has little contact with other black 
women, and if she does, it is not of a deep sort. The 
discussion is generally of clothes, makeup, furniture, and 
men. Privately she does whatever she can to stay out of that 
surplus of black women (one million) who will never find 
mates. And if she doesn’t find a man, she might just decide to 
have a baby anyway. 

Now that an organized black civil rights movement no longer 
exists, black women do not find it necessary to place their 
willingness to assume a sexist-defined role in the context of 
black liberation; so it is much more obvious that their support 
of patriarchy was not engendered solely by their concern for 
the black race but by the fact that they live in a culture in 
which the majority of women support and accept patriarchy. 

When the movement toward feminism began in the late 60s, 
black women rarely participated as a group. Since the 
dominant white patriarchy and black male patriarchy 
conveyed to black women the message that to cast a vote in 
favor of social equality of the sexes, i.e. women’s liberation, 
was to cast a vote against black liberation, they were initially 
suspicious of the white woman’s call for a feminist 
movement. Many black women refused to participate in the 
movement because they had no desire to fight against sexism. 
Theirs was not an unusual stance. The great majority of 


248 



women in the U.S. did not partieipate in the women’s 
movement for the same reason. White men were among the 
first observers of the women’s movement to eall attention to 
the absenee of blaek women partieipants, but they did so 
solely to moek and ridieule the efforts of white feminists. 
They smugly questioned the eredibility of a women’s 
liberation movement that eould not attraet women from the 
most oppressed female groups in Ameriean soeiety. They 
were among the first erities of feminism to raise the question 
of white female raeism. In response, white women 
liberationists urged blaek and other non-white women to join 
their ranks. Those blaek women who were most vehemently 
anti-feminist were the most eager to respond. Their stanee 
eame to be depieted as the blaek female position on womens 
liberation. They expressed their views in essays like Ida 
Lewis’ “Women’s Rights, Why the Struggle Still Goes On,” 
Linda 

LaRue’s “Blaek Liberation and Womens Lib,” “Women’s 
Liberation Has No Soul,” first published in Eneore magazine, 
and Renee Fergueson’s “Women’s Liberation Has a Different 
Meaning for Blaeks.” Linda LaRue’s eomments on women’s 
liberation were often quoted as if they were the definitive 
blaek female response to women’s liberation: 

Let it be stated unequivoeally that the Ameriean white woman 
has had a better opportunity to live a free and fulfilling life, 
both mentally and physieally, than any other group in the 
United States, exeluding her white husband. Thus any attempt 
to analogize blaek oppression with the plight of Ameriean 
white women has all the validity of eomparing the neek of a 
hanging man with the rope-burned hands of an amateur 
mountain elimber. 


249 



In their essays, blaek female anti-feminists revealed hatred 
and envy of white women. They expended their energy 
attaeking white women liberationists, not by offering any 
eonvineing evidenee that would support their elaim that blaek 
women had no need of women’s liberation. Blaek soeiologist 
Joyee Ladner expressed her views on women’s liberation in 
her study of blaek women Tomorrow’s Tomorrow: 

Many blaek women who have traditionally aeeepted the white 
models of femininity are now rejeeting them for the same 
general reasons that we should rejeet the white middle-elass 
lifestyle. Blaek women in this soeiety are the only ethnie or 
radieal group whieh has had the opportunity to be women. By 
this I simply mean that mueh of the eurrent focus on being 
liberated from the constraints and protectiveness of the 
society which is proposed by women’s liberation groups has 
never applied to Black women, and in that sense, we have 
always been “free,” and able to develop as individuals even 
under the most harsh circumstances. This freedom, as well as 
the tremendous hardships from which black women suffered, 
allowed for the development of a personality that is rarely 
described in the scholarly journals for its obstinate strength 
and ability to survive. Neither is its peculiar humanistic 
character and quiet courage viewed as the epitome of what the 
American model of femininity should be. 

Ladner’s assertion that black women were “free” became one 
of the accepted explanations for black female refusal to 
participate 

in a women’s liberation movement. But such an assertion 
merely reveals that black women who were most quick to 
dismiss women’s liberation had not thought seriously about 
feminist struggle. For while white women may have seen 


250 



feminism as a way to free themselves from the eonstraints 
imposed upon them by idealized concepts of femininity, black 
women could have seen feminism as a way to free themselves 
from constraints that sexism clearly imposed on their 
behavior. Only a very naive unenlightened person could 
confidently state that black women in the U.S. are a liberated 
female group. The black women who patted themselves on 
the back for being “already liberated” were really 
acknowledging their acceptance of sexism and their 
contentment with patriarchy. 

The concentrated focus on black anti-feminist thought was so 
pervasive that black women who supported feminism and 
participated in the effort to establish a feminist movement 
rectived little attention, if any. For every black anti-feminist 
article written and published, there existed a pro-feminist 
black female position. Essays like Cellestine Ware’s “Black 
Feminism,” Shirley Chisholm’s “Women Must Rebel,” Mary 
Ann Weather’s “An Argument for Black Women’s Liberation 
as a Revolutionary Force,” and Pauli Murray’s “The 
Liberation of Black Women” all expressed black female 
support of feminism. 

As a group, black women were not opposed to social equality 
between the sexes but they were not eager to join with white 
women to organize a feminist movement. The 1972 Virginia 
Slims American Women’s Opinion Poll showed that more 
black women supported changes in the status of women in 
society than white women. Yet their support of feminist 
issues did not lead them as a collective group to actively 
participate in the women’s liberation movement. Two 
explanations are usually given to explain their lack of 
participation. The first is that the 60s black movement 


251 



encouraged black women to assume a subservient role and 
caused them to reject feminism. The second is that black 
women were, as one white woman liberationist put it, 
“repelled by the racial and class composition of the women’s 
movement.” Taken at face value these reasons seem adequate. 
Examined in a historical context in which black women have 
rallied in support of women’s 

rights despite pressure from black men to assume a 
subordinate position, and despite the fact that white middle 
and upper class women have dominated every women’s 
movement in the U.S., they seem inadequate. While they do 
provide justification for the anti-feminist black female 
position, they do not explain why black women who support 
feminist ideology refuse to participate fully in the 
contemporary women’s movement. 

Initially, black feminists approached the women’s movement 
white women had organized eager to join the struggle to end 
sexist oppression. We were disappointed and disillusioned 
when we discovered that white women in the movement had 
little knowledge of or concern for the problems of lower class 
and poor women or the particular problems of non-white 
women from all classes. Those of us who were active in 
women’s groups found that white feminists lamented the 
absence of large numbers of non-white participants but were 
unwilling to change the movement’s focus so that it would 
better address the needs of women from all classes and races. 
Some white women even argued that groups not represented 
by a numerical majority could not expect their concerns to be 
given attention. Such a position reinforced the black female 
participants’ suspicion that white participants wanted the 
movement to concentrate on the concerns not of women as a 


252 



collective group, but on the individual concerns of the small 
minority who had organized the movement. 

Blaek feminists found that sisterhood for most white women 
did not mean surrendering allegianee to raee, class, and 
sexual preference, to bond on the basis of the shared political 
belief that a feminist revolution was necessary so that all 
people, espeeially women, eould reclaim their rightful 
citizenship in the world. From our peripheral position in the 
movement we saw that the potential radicalism of feminist 
ideology was being undermined by women who, while paying 
lip service to revolutionary goals, were primarily concerned 
with gaining entranee into the capitalist patriarchal power 
strueture. Although white feminists denounced the white 
male, calling him an imperialist, capitalist, sexist, raeist pig, 
they made women’s liberation synonymous with women 
obtaining the 

right to fully participate in the very system they identified as 
oppressive. Their anger was not merely a response to sexist 
oppression. It was an expression of their jealousy and envy of 
white men who held positions of power in the system while 
they were denied aecess to those positions. 

Individual black feminists despaired as we witnessed the 
appropriation of feminist ideology by elitist, racist white 
women. We were unable to usurp leadership positions within 
the movement so that we could spread an authentic message 
of feminist revolution. We could not even get a hearing at 
women’s groups beeause they were organized and controlled 
by white women. Along with politically aware white women, 
we, black feminists, began to feel that no organized feminist 
struggle really existed. We dropped out of groups, weary of 
hearing talk about women as a foree that eould ehange the 


253 



world when we had not ehanged ourselves. Some blaek 
women formed “blaek feminist” groups which resembled in 
almost every way the groups they had left. Others struggled 
alone. Some of us continued to go to organizations, women’s 
studies classes, or conferences, but were not fully 
participating. 

For ten years now I have been an active feminist. I have been 
working to destroy the psychology of dominance that 
permeates Western culture and shapes female/male sex roles 
and I have advocated reconstruction of U.S. society based on 
human rather than material values. I have been a student in 
women’s studies classes, a participant in feminist seminars, 
organizations, and various women’s groups. Initially I 
believed that the women who were active in feminist 
activities were concerned about sexist oppression and its 
impact on women as a collective group. But I became 
disillusioned as I saw various groups of women appropriating 
feminism to serve their own opportunistic ends. Whether it 
was women university professors crying sexist oppression 
(rather than sexist discrimination) to attract attention to their 
efforts to gain promotion; or women using feminism to mask 
their sexist attitudes; or women writers superficially exploring 
feminist themes to advance their own careers, it was evident 
that eliminating sexist oppression was not the primary 
concern. While their rallying cry was sexist oppression, they 
showed little concern 

about the status of women as a collective group in our society. 
They were primarily interested in making feminism a forum 
for the expression of their own self-centered needs and 
desires. Not once did they entertain the possibility that their 
concerns might not represent the concerns of oppressed 
women. 


254 



Even as I witnessed the hypoeriey of feminists, I elung to the 
hope that inereased partieipation of women from different 
raees and elasses in feminist aetivities would lead to a 
re-evaluation of feminism, radieal reeonstruetion of feminist 
ideology, and the launehing of a new movement that would 
more adequately address the eoneerns of both women and 
men. I was not willing to see white women feminists as 
“enemies.” Yet as I moved from one women’s group to 
another trying to offer a different perspective, I met with 
hostility and resentment. White women liberationists saw 
feminism as “their” movement and resisted any efforts by 
non-white women to critique, challenge, or change its 
direction. 

During this time, I was struck by the fact that the ideology of 
feminism, with its emphasis on transforming and changing 
the social structure of the U.S., in no way resembled the 
actual reality of American feminism. Largely because 
feminists themselves, as they attempted to take feminism 
beyond the realm of radical rhetoric into the sphere of 
American life, revealed that they remained imprisoned in the 
very structures they hoped to change. Consequently, the 
sisterhood we talked about has not become a reality. And the 
women’s movement we envisioned would have a 
transformative effect on U.S. culture has not emerged. 
Instead, the hierarchical pattern of sex-race relationships 
already established by white capitalist patriarchy merely 
assumed a different form under feminism. Women 
liberationists did not invite a wholistic analysis of woman’s 
status in society that would take into consideration the varied 
aspects of our experience. In their eagerness to promote the 
idea of sisterhood, they ignored the complexity of woman’s 
experience. While claiming to liberate women from biological 


255 



determinism, they denied women an existence outside that 
determined by our sexuality. It did not serve the interest of 
upper and middle class white feminists to discuss race and 
class. 

Consequently, much feminist literature, while providing 
meaningful information concerning women’s experiences, is 
both racist and sexist in its content. I say this not to condemn 
or dismiss. Each time I read a feminist book that is racist and 
sexist, I feel a sadness and an anguish of spirit. For to know 
that there thrives in the very movement that has claimed to 
liberate women endless snares that bind us tighter and tighter 
to old oppressive ways is to witness the failure of yet another 
potentially radical, transformative movement in our society. 

Although the contemporary feminist movement was initially 
motivated by the sincere desire of women to eliminate sexist 
oppression, it takes place within the framework of a larger, 
more powerful cultural system that encourages women and 
men to place the fulfillment of individual aspirations above 
their desire for collective change. Given this framework, it is 
not surprising that feminism has been undermined by the 
narcissism, greed, and individual opportunism of its leading 
exponents. A feminist ideology that mouths radical rhetoric 
about resistance and revolution while actively seeking to 
establish itself within the capitalist patriarchal system is 
essentially corrupt. While the contemporary feminist 
movement has successfully stimulated an awareness of the 
impact of sexist discrimination on the social status of women 
in the U.S., it has done little to eliminate sexist oppression. 
Teaching women how to defend themselves against male 
rapists is not the same as working to change society so that 
men will not rape. Establishing houses for battered women 
does not change the psyches of the men who batter them, nor 


256 



does it change the culture that promotes and condones their 
brutality. Attacking heterosexuality does little to strengthen 
the self-concept of the masses of women who desire to be 
with men. Denouncing housework as menial labor does not 
restore to the woman houseworker the pride and dignity in her 
labor she is stripped of by patriarchal devaluation. 
Demanding an end to institutionalized sexism does not ensure 
an end to sexist oppression. 

The rhetoric of feminism with its emphasis on resistance, 
rebellion, and revolution created an illusion of militancy and 
radicalism that masked the fact that feminism was in no way a 
challenge or a threat to capitalist patriarchy. To perpetuate the 
notion that all men are creatures of privilege with access to a 
personal fulfillment and a personal liberation denied women, 
as feminists do, is to lend further credibility to the sexist 
mystique of male power that proclaims all that is male is 
inherently superior to that which is female. A feminism so 
rooted in envy, fear, and idealization of male power cannot 
expose the de-humanizing effect of sexism on men and 
women in American society. Today, feminism offers women 
not liberation but the right to act as surrogate men. It has not 
provided a blueprint for change that would lead to the 
elimination of sexist oppression or a transformation of our 
society. The women’s movement has become a kind of ghetto 
or concentration camp for women who are seeking to attain 
the kind of power they feel men have. It provides a forum for 
the expression of their feelings of anger, jealousy, rage, and 
disappointment with men. It provides an atmosphere where 
women who have little in common, who may resent or even 
feel indifferent to one another can bond on the basis of shared 
negative feelings toward men. Finally, it gives women of all 
races, who desire to assume the imperialist, sexist, racist 


257 



positions of destruction men hold with a platform that allows 
them to act as if the attainment of their personal aspirations 
and their lust for power is for the common good of all 
women. 

Right now, women in the U.S. are witnessing the demise of 
yet another women’s rights movement. The future of 
collective feminist struggle is bleak. The women who 
appropriated feminism to advance their own opportunistic 
causes have achieved their desired ends and are no longer 
interested in feminism as a political ideology. Many women 
who remain active in women’s rights groups and 
organizations stubbornly refuse to critique the distorted 
analysis of woman’s lot in society popularized by women’s 
liberation. Since these women are not oppressed they can 
support a feminist movement that is reformist, racist, and 
classist because they see no urgent need for radical change. 
Although women in the U.S. have come closer to obtaining 
social equality with men, the capitalist-patriarchal system is 
unchanged. It is still imperialist, racist, sexist, and oppressive. 

The recent women’s movement failed to adequately address 
the issue of sexist oppression, but that failure does not change 
the fact that it exists, that we are victimized by it to varying 
degrees, nor does it free any of us from assuming 
responsibility for change. Many black women are daily 
victimized by sexist oppression. More often than not we bear 
our pain in silence, patiently waiting for a change to come. 
But neither passive acceptance nor stoic endurance lead to 
change. Change occurs only when there is action, movement, 
revolution. The 19th century black female was a woman of 
action. Her suffering, the harshness of her lot in a racist, 
sexist world, and her concern for the plight of others 


258 



motivated her to join feminist struggle. She did not allow the 
racism of white women’s rights advocates or the sexism of 
black men to deter her from political involvement. She did 
not rely on any group to provide her with a blueprint for 
change. She was a maker of blueprints. In an address given 
before an audience of women in 1892 Anna Cooper proudly 
voiced the black woman’s perspective on feminism: 

Let woman’s claim be as broad in the concrete as in the 
abstract. We take our stand on the solidarity of humanity, the 
oneness of life, and the unnaturalness and injustice of all 
special favoritism, whether of sex, race, country, or condition. 
If one link of the chain is broken, the chain is broken. A 
bridge is no stronger than its weakest part, and a cause is not 
worthier than its weakest element. Least of all can woman’s 
cause afford to decry the weak. We want, then, as toilers for 
the universal triumph of justice and human rights, to go to our 
homes from this Congress demanding an entrance not through 
a gateway for ourselves, our race, our sex, or our sect, but a 
grand highway for humanity. The colored woman feels that 
woman’s cause is one and universal; and that not till the 
image of God whether in parian or ebony, is sacred and 
inviolable; not till race, color, sex, and condition are seen as 
accidents, and not the substance of life; not till the universal 
title of humanity to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness 
is conceded to be inalienable to all; not till then is woman’s 
cause won— not the white woman’s, nor the black woman’s, 
nor the red woman’s, but the cause of every man and of every 
woman who has writhed silently under a mighty wrong. 
Woman’s 

wrongs are thus indissolubly linked with all undefended woe, 
and the acquirement of her “rights” will mean the final 
triumph of all right over might, the supremacy of the moral 


259 



forces of reason, and justice, and love in the government of 
the nations of earth. 

Cooper spoke for herself and thousands of other black women 
who had been bom into slavery, who because they had been 
severely victimized, felt a compassion and a concern for the 
plight of all oppressed peoples. Had all women’s rights 
advoeates shared their sentiments the feminist movement in 
the U.S. would be tmly radical and transformative. 

Feminism is an ideology in the making. According to the 
Oxford English Dictionary the term “feminism” was first used 
in the latter part of the 19th century and it was defined as 
having the “qualities of females.” The meaning of the term 
has been gradually transformed and the 20th century 
dictionary definition of feminism is a “theory of the political, 
economic, and social equality of the sexes.” To many women 
this definition is inadequate. In the introduction to The 
Remembered Gate: Origins of American Feminism Barbara 
Berg defines feminism as a “broad movement embraeing 
numerous phases of woman’s emancipation.” She further 
states: 

It is the freedom to decide her own destiny; freedom from 
sex-determined role; freedom from society’s oppressive 
restrietions; freedom to express her thoughts fully and to 
convert them freely to actions. Feminism demands the 
acceptanee of woman’s right to individual conscienee and 
judgment. It postulates that woman’s essential worth stems 
from her common humanity and does not depend on the other 
relationships of her life. 


260 



Her expanded definition of feminism is useful but limited. 
Many women have found that neither the struggle for “soeial 
equality” nor the focus on an “ideology of woman as an 
autonomous being” are enough to rid society of sexism and 
male domination. To me feminism is not simply a struggle to 
end male chauvinism or a movement to ensure that women 
will have equal rights with men; it is a commitment to 
eradicating the ideology of domination that permeates 
Western culture on various levels—sex, race, and class, to 
name a few—and a 

commitment to reorganizing U.S. society so that the 
self-development of people can take precedence over 
imperialism, economic expansion, and material desires. 
Writers of a feminist pamphlet published anonymously in 
1976 urged women to develop political consciousness: 

In all these struggles we must be assertive and challenging, 
combating the deep-seated tendency in Americans to be 
liberal, that is, to evade struggling over questions of principle 
for fear of creating tensions or becoming unpopular. Instead 
we must live by the fundamental dialectical principle: that 
progress comes only from struggling to resolve 
contradictions. 

It is a contradiction that white females have structured a 
women’s liberation movement that is racist and excludes 
many non-white women. However, the existence of that 
contradiction should not lead any woman to ignore feminist 
issues. Oftentimes I am asked by black women to explain 
why I would call myself a feminist and by using that term ally 
myself with a movement that is racist. I say, “The question 
we must ask again and again is how can racist women call 
themselves feminists.” It is obvious that many women have 


appropriated feminism to serve their own ends, espeeially 
those white women who have been at the forefront of the 
movement; but rather than resigning myself to this 
appropriation I ehoose to re-appropriate the term “feminism,” 
to foeus on the faet that to be “feminist” in any authentie 
sense of the term is to want for all people, female and male, 
liberation from sexist role patterns, domination, and 
oppression. 

Today masses of blaek women in the U.S. refuse to 
aeknowledge that they have mueh to gain by feminist 
struggle. They fear feminism. They have stood in plaee so 
long that they are afraid to move. They fear ehange. They fear 
losing what little they have. They are afraid to openly 
eonfront white feminists with their raeism or blaek males with 
their sexism, not to mention eonfronting white men with their 
raeism and sexism. I have sat in many a kitchen and heard 
black women express a belief in feminism and eloquently 
critique the women’s movement explaining their refusal to 
participate. I have witnessed their refusal to express these 
same views in a 

public setting. I know their fear exists because they have seen 
us trampled upon, raped, abused, slaughtered, ridiculed and 
mocked. Only a few black women have rekindled the spirit of 
feminist struggle that stirred the hearts and minds of our 19th 
century sisters. We, black women who advocate feminist 
ideology, are pioneers. We are clearing a path for ourselves 
and our sisters. We hope that as they see us reach our 
goal—no longer victimized, no longer unrecognized, no 
longer afraid— they will take courage and follow. 
